100,English 9,English,9,Year,10,1,,None,Primary areas of study in Academic English 9 are literature; composition; oral communication; and language skills. Literature study includes the five major genres: short story; novel; nonfiction; drama; and poetry. The focus is on acquisition of reading comprehension skills and the ability to identify and analyze the characteristics of each genre. Using the process approach to writing; students write compositions in the informational; explanatory; argumentative; narrative; and creative modes. to develop their oral communication skills; students make both formal and informal presentations. Language skills include regular vocabulary study and a review of basic grammar; punctuation; and sentence structure. ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R7E61htbsvY,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
101,MYP English 9,English,9,Year,10,1,,None,Primary areas of study in Academic English 9 are literature; composition; oral communication; and language skills. Literature study includes the five major genres: short story; novel; nonfiction; drama; and poetry. The focus is on acquisition of reading comprehension skills and the ability to identify and analyze the characteristics of each genre. Using the process approach to writing; students write compositions in the informational; explanatory; argumentative; narrative; and creative modes. to develop their oral communication skills; students make both formal and informal presentations. Language skills include regular vocabulary study and a review of basic grammar; punctuation; and sentence structure. MYP instruction emphasizes IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEnv8ahNCH0&feature=em-upload_owner,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
103,HN English 9,English,9,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,The emphasis of the honors ninth grade program is on literature; literary genres; research; and composition. The literature is presented by genre: prose; poetry; fiction; nonfiction; tragedy; and comedy. Students are required to identify and analyze critically the major characteristics and technical aspects of each genre. Composition is an integral part of the literature program. A supplementary reading program consisting of fiction and nonfiction complements the regular program. Discussion seminars require oral participation and class leadership. Language skills; including vocabulary; style; and conventions; are practiced in writing and speaking.,www.youtube.com/embed/9pX6WBcBrGY,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
106,MYP HN English 9,English,9,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,The emphasis of the honors ninth grade program is on literature; literary genres; research; and composition. The literature is presented by genre: prose; poetry; fiction; nonfiction; tragedy; and comedy. Students are required to identify and analyze critically the major characteristics and technical aspects of each genre. Composition is an integral part of the literature program. A supplementary reading program consisting of fiction and nonfiction complements the regular program. Discussion seminars require oral participation and class leadership. Language skills; including vocabulary; style; and conventions; are practiced in writing and speaking.  MYP instruction emphasizes IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,http://youtu.be/n_33S03dlDQ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
109,English 10,English,10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 9,The objective of this course is to emphasize reading and writing through the study of universal themes reflected in the literature of numerous cultures and eras. Areas of concentration include literature; vocabulary; grammar and usage; speech techniques; and composition. Students will explore nonfiction; poetry; drama/tragedy; and fiction; including supplemental books. Student writing will include various multi-paragraph essays; both formal and informal. Students will also develop research skills by writing a critical paper in which they integrate primary and secondary source quotations. The grammar/usage study will reinforce skills needed to write clear and complete sentences with units on clauses; punctuation; and usage. The vocabulary program consists of literary and contextual vocabulary; as well as a rigorous online unit of enrichment words. Students will also prepare and deliver a formal speech.  ,https://youtu.be/3mSvHrUMtWM,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
110,MYP English 10,English,10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of MYP English 9,The objective of this course is to emphasize reading and writing through the study of universal themes reflected in the literature of numerous cultures and eras. Areas of concentration include literature; vocabulary; grammar and usage; speech techniques; and composition. Students will explore nonfiction; poetry; drama/tragedy; and fiction; including supplemental books. Student writing will include various multi-paragraph essays; both formal and informal. Students will also develop research skills by writing a critical paper in which they integrate primary and secondary source quotations. The grammar/usage study will reinforce skills needed to write clear and complete sentences with units on clauses; punctuation; and usage. The vocabulary program consists of literary and contextual vocabulary; as well as a rigorous online unit of enrichment words. Students will also prepare and deliver a formal speech.  MYP instruction emphasizes IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-9BpguEpGU,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
112,HN English 10,English,10,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 9 ,Honors English 10 offers motivated students a survey of classic literature of western civilization. Students will study various genres of literature from ancient Greece and the classic writers of England. Throughout the study of core works and supplemental novels; students will explore the nature of a literary classic; its universality; and its relevance to modern man. to complement the study of literature; students will write for various purposes and audiences; including a controlled literary research paper. Besides offering an accelerated reading and writing program; the course also provides opportunities to practice effective speech techniques. An ambitious independent vocabulary program and grammar study are other important components of this course.,www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2wovJYwWRg&feature=youtu.be&hd=1,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
115,MYP HN English 10,English,10,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of MYP English 9 ,Honors English 10 offers motivated students a survey of classic literature of western civilization. Students will study various genres of literature from ancient Greece and the classic writers of England. Throughout the study of core works and supplemental novels; students will explore the nature of a literary classic; its universality; and its relevance to modern man. to complement the study of literature; students will write for various purposes and audiences; including a controlled literary research paper. Besides offering an accelerated reading and writing program; the course also provides opportunities to practice effective speech techniques. An ambitious independent vocabulary program and grammar study are other important components of this course.  MYP instruction emphasizes IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,www.youtube.com/watch?v=RxH4QqHKv1g&feature=youtu.be&hd=1,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
118,English 11,English,11,Year,10,1,,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 10,English 11 focuses on the reasons for reading and writing in contemporary society. Through a survey of American literature; we study texts in light of contemporary issues and realities. We practice our skills in research and writing; in thinking and discussion. Students continue to refine the writing and research skills necessary for a yearlong; inquiry-based research process that will result in an informative research paper and a persuasive presentation. Grammar exercises; vocabulary lessons; and timed writings are designed for SAT preparation.,https://youtu.be/i1oyfw5RWbM,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
121,HN English 11,English,11,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 10,Honors English 11 offers motivated students an opportunity to study fiction and non-fiction pieces of American literature organized around guiding themes. Students will write a variety of expository; analytical; and argumentative assignments; including a formal research paper. Independent vocabulary and grammar programs help students improve their literacy; prepare for SAT and ACT exams; and refine their writing style. The course also offers students opportunities to present formally and informally.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cvvwbR7vTTA&t=2s,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
124,IB English A: Literature HL11,English,11,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 10,The English A: Literature program encourages students to see literary works as products of art and their authors as craftsmen whose methods of production can be analyzed in a variety of ways and on a number of levels. This goal is achieved through the emphasis placed on exploring the means used by different authors to convey their subjects in the works studied. The World Literature studied in the English A: Literature program is important to IB students because of its global perspective. It is envisaged as having the potential to enrich the international awareness of IB students and to develop in them the attitudes of tolerance; empathy; and a genuine respect for perspectives different from their own. In fulfilling the objectives of the course; the students will develop their powers of expression; both in oral and written communication; as they practice the skills involved in writing and speaking in a variety of styles and situations. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/Fc2ENpZUznE,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
125,IB English A: Literature HL12,English,12,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of IB English A: Literature HL-11 and Fulfillment of IB Assessments,The English A: Literature program encourages students to see literary works as products of art and their authors as craftsmen whose methods of production can be analyzed in a variety of ways and on a number of levels. This goal is achieved through the emphasis placed on exploring the means used by different authors to convey their subjects in the works studied. The World Literature studied in the English A: Literature program is important to IB students because of its global perspective. It is envisaged as having the potential to enrich the international awareness of IB students and to develop in them the attitudes of tolerance; empathy; and a genuine respect for perspectives different from their own. In fulfilling the objectives of the course; the students will develop their powers of expression; both in oral and written communication; as they practice the skills involved in writing and speaking in a variety of styles and situations. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/Fc2ENpZUznE,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
127,English 12,English,12,Year,10,1,,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 11,This course provides a survey of English literature with an in-depth analysis of literature from the Anglo-Saxon Period; the Medieval Era; the Renaissance; the Romantic Era; the Victorian Age; and the Modern Age. Coursework also includes poetry; short stories; and an examination of modern texts outside the scope of British literature. Alongside the readings; English 12 provides a study of sophisticated grammar; mastery of the rules of usage; and implementation of composition skills as delineated in the sequential writing program; including a formal research paper.,www.youtube.com/embed/YPSj8oXgynk?rel=0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
127OL,English 12 with Online S2,English,12,Year,10,1,,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 11,This course contains the same content and core requirements as 127 English 12 and will meet in the traditional classroom during the first semester.  The second semester of the course will be conducted online with required face to face meetings held periodically at the teacher's discretion.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
130,AP English Literature,English,12,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 11,The AP English Literature and Composition course aligns to an introductory college-level literary analysis course that focuses on furthering students’ reading and writing skills. As they read poetry; drama; and novels; students consider a work’s structure; style and themes; as well as its use of figurative language; imagery; symbolism and tone. Students will write a variety of expository and analytical assignments that interpret literary works; including a formal research paper. This course offers students opportunities to actively engage with the texts and topics they study and present both formally and informally to the class. Students may opt to take the AP Literature Exam in May and; upon earning a passing score; may receive college credit for the course.,https://youtu.be/9SJMOFiuppM,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
131,AP English Language,English,12,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Passing Grade for Both Semesters of English 11,The AP English Language and Composition course aligns to an introductory college-level rhetoric and writing curriculum; which requires students to develop evidence-based analytic and argumentative skills. Students read and analyze the rhetorical elements and their effects on non-fiction texts; including graphic images as forms of text; organized around a variety of guiding themes. Students evaluate; synthesize; and cite research to support their arguments. Students may opt to take the AP Language Exam in May and; upon earning a passing score; may receive college credit for the course.,https://youtu.be/Aa770S11eFA,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
136,Speech ,English,,Semester,10,1,,None,This elective is available to all students in grades 9-12; offers students an opportunity to develop mastery; poise; and style in both formal and informal speaking situations. The course includes a variety of speaking experiences designed to develop each student’s abilities to prepare; to deliver; and to evaluate a variety of speech types; including informative and argumentative. Students will also practice using presentation software as an effective tool to complement their speeches.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GG0Ny_AyKsc&feature=youtu.be&hd=1,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X,X
142,English Composition ,English,,Semester,10,1,,None,This elective is designed to improve students' writing abilities by exploring various writing styles; techniques; and processes. Students will create; revise; and publish formal and informal essays; and improve their writing styles. Students are expected to write in a manner that reflects standard grammar; usage; and punctuation. Assistance will be provided in these areas as needed. Students will also explore writing techniques through direct instruction; individual and small-group projects; readings; and classroom workshops. A workshop-style setting will provide an individualized approach.,http://youtu.be/1Xb7zE74ju8?hd=1,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
145,Creative Writing ,English,,Semester,10,1,,None,This elective is designed to offer opportunities for creative writing in various genres; especially in poetry and fiction. Mini-lessons on craft; daily prompts; and instruction on techniques through workshop are regular practices. Student will discuss writing as writers do; not as literary critics. Students will study models but the course’s primary focus will be the creation of original work. These works may be published and/or performed for the class. When appropriate; writers will be engaged in writing field trips.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/AQOEqbjvC_Q,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
200,Shaping the Modern World I: Regions/Systems,Social Studies,9,Year,10,1,,None,Shaping the Modern World I addresses four fundamental questions for each region of the world: 1) Who are the people of this region?; 2) Why are the people of the region who they are?; 3) How is each region interconnected?; and 4) What are the modern challenges of this region? To answer these critical questions; four themes will be explored in each region: culture; physical geography; politics; and economics. Regions to be studied include North America; Europe/Russia; the Middle East and North Africa; Sub-saharan Africa; East and Southeast Asia; South Asia; and Latin America. The course will act as a transition from 8th grade by beginning with the United States as a region. Students will continue their prior study of U.S. history through an integrated exploration of the U.S. and world; post-1945.  ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_6ZiP2rCAY&t=2s,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
201,MYP Shaping the Modern World I: Regions/Systems,Social Studies,9,Year,10,1,,None,The course objectives and the content are the same as 200 Shaping the Modern World I. MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as the Areas of Interaction; global connections; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_6ZiP2rCAY&t=2s,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
203,HN Shaping the Modern World I: Regions/Systems,Social Studies,9,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,While investigating the history and culture of the world’s geographic regions; students will examine the social; political; economic; and transnational processes that have shaped our world today. Developing in cultural literacy; student will explore the interconnected nature of human activity and will learn to think critically about the relationships and divisions among people and places in the global community. Regions to be studied include North America; Europe/Russia; the Middle East and North Africa; Sub-saharan Africa; East and Southeast Asia; South Asia; and Latin America. Students will participate in an ongoing community engagement project.  ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_6ZiP2rCAY&t=2s,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
206,MYP HN Shaping the Modern World I: Regions/Systems,Social Studies,9,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,The course objectives and the content are the same as 203 Honors Shaping the Modern World I. MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as the Areas of Interaction; global connections; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8_6ZiP2rCAY&t=2s,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
209,World History,Social Studies,10,Year,10,1,,None,World History deals with the sum total of human activity and encourages students to explore its achievements; failures and consequences. The course material is organized and presented in a thematic approach. Western and non-western civilizations are compared to show how they have interacted with each other over the short span of man’s recorded history. The course charts the human experience through a multidisciplinary approach and a variety of conceptual lenses; including economic shifts; political decisions and interactions; cultural/sociological developments; religious and ideological movements; as well as causes and effects of military conflicts. Students will be encouraged to view the importance of history in reference to all aspects of life; since all human activities shed light on the development of man and society.,www.youtube.com/embed/oUEjjNcpHQA,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
210,MYP World History,Social Studies,10,Year,10,1,,Successful Completion of 9th Grade Level MYP,World History deals with the sum total of human activity and encourages students to explore its achievements; failures and consequences. The course material is organized and presented in a thematic approach. Western and non-western civilizations are compared to show how they have interacted with each other over the short span of man’s recorded history. The course charts the human experience through a multidisciplinary approach and a variety of conceptual lenses; including economic shifts; political decisions and interactions; cultural/sociological developments; religious and ideological movements; as well as causes and effects of military conflicts. Students will be encouraged to view the importance of history in reference to all aspects of life; since all human activities shed light on the development of man and society.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as the Areas of Interaction; global connections; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/oUEjjNcpHQA,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
212,HN World History,Social Studies,10,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation,This course is similar to the regular World History course but includes additional in-depth coverage; readings; research; and more emphasis on the inquiry approach. Less time is spent on review and more time on in-depth coverage.,www.youtube.com/embed/RvTTN4wIjdU,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
215,MYP HN World History,Social Studies,10,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation and Successful Completion of 9th grade Level MYP,This course is similar to the regular World History course but includes additional in-depth coverage; readings; research; and more emphasis on the inquiry approach. Less time is spent on review and more time on in-depth coverage.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as the Areas of Interaction; global connections; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/RvTTN4wIjdU,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
216,AP World History,Social Studies,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Successful Completion of 9th Grade Level Honors or MYP Honors Civics,AP World History is open to students in grades 10-12. It is a rigorous; college-level course designed to explore human history from 8;000 B.C.E. to the present. We will emphasize the development of analytical and writing skills necessary for success on a collegiate level. To this end; the course devotes considerable time to the critical evaluation of primary and secondary sources; analysis of historiography (the principles; theories; or methodology of scholarly historical research and presentation); and inquiry into global connections that have shaped our present world. A special emphasis will be given to preparation for the National AP Exam; including historical writing through essay and document-based questions (DBQ) as well as objective evaluations. MYP Honors students who choose to take AP World History will be able to complete the requirement of the MYP certificate.,www.youtube.com/embed/eEVQ2XuqHNY,,,,X,,,,,,,X,X,,,,
218,American History,Social Studies,11,Year,10,1,,None,All students are required to take a full year of American History in the junior year. Through an extensive study of history; students will learn about the many aspects of American life. The course is organized as a survey of the history of the United States from 1850 to the present day. A multidisciplinary approach is used to incorporate into the study of history the areas of economics; geography; anthropology; political science; foundations of government; impact of leaders; sequence of events; world wars; beliefs and ideas; and the changing status of the United States from birth to present time.,www.youtube.com/embed/MfFr1262bEA,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
221,HN American History,Social Studies,11,Year,10,1,Y,Departmental Recommendation,Men and women make history. Their ideas and hopes; their goals and contrivances for reaching those goals; shape all experience; past and present. The Honors American History course endeavors to recount and explain that experience. It examines both the aspirations and achievements of the American people; as well as the ideas; institutions; and the processes of American history. It focuses on the decisions; positive and negative; that reflect national goals and direct national purposes and consequently it focuses continually on the men and women who made those decisions. On those who made history; the course emphasizes public policy but the history of public policy demands continual discussion of the whole culture that influenced it. Students will be required to conduct original research at various times throughout the course. This original research will take various forms including the completion of an independent research project. Students will be required to complete an independent research paper as part of the course. The paper becomes a course requirement once it is assigned in October.,www.youtube.com/embed/6dUhDNXP2sk,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
224,AP United States History,Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,High Ability and Motivation in Social Studies and Departmental Recommendation,Advanced Placement United States History is designed for juniors and seniors who are highly motivated and have a strong interest in history. The course will explore issues; innovations; and conflicts that have shaped American life. Discussions; writings; and readings will emphasize the emergence of social patterns and political structures that characterize today’s centralized; urban industrial nation. The goal of the course is to prepare students for higher-level college work by making demands on them equivalent to those associated with an introductory college course. As a result; the course has a significantly heavier course load than that of the Honors American History course. It will present students with a groundwork in facts and instill an understanding of methods for evaluating facts. Students will also review historical materials; analyze and criticize historical evidence; and arrive at conclusions on the basis of informed judgment. The course is designed to sharpen analytical and inquiry skills. Students will be encouraged to participate in seminars; discussions; and to pursue independent research projects. Students will be required to complete an independent research paper as part of the course. The paper becomes a course requirement once it is assigned in October.,www.youtube.com/embed/FH_RdFeIlHc,,,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,,
227,AP Comparative Government and Politics (Fall),Social Studies,10;11;12,Fall,10,1,Y,High ability and motivation in Social Studies ,AP Comparative Government and Politics is open to students in grades 10-12 in the fall semester. The course introduces students to the rich diversity of political life outside the United States. The course uses a comparative approach to examine the political structures; policies; and the political; economic; and social challenges among six selected countries: Great Britain; Mexico; Russia; Iran; China; and Nigeria. Additionally; students examine how different governments solve similar problems by comparing the effectiveness of approaches to many global issues.,www.youtube.com/embed/f58T8wC6Z08,,,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,,
228,AP US Government and Politics (Spring),Social Studies,10;11;12,Spring,10,1,Y,High Ability and Motivation in Social Studies ,AP United States Government and Politics is open to students in grades 10-12 in the spring semester. The course introduces students to key political ideas; institutions; policies; interactions; roles; and behaviors that characterize the political culture of the United States. The course examines politically significant concepts and themes; through which students learn to apply disciplinary reasoning; assess causes and consequences of political events; and interpret data to develop evidence-based arguments.  Students will complete a Civic Engagement project.,www.youtube.com/embed/f58T8wC6Z08,,,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,,
230,IB History of The Americas 11 HL,Social Studies,11,Year,10,1,Y,AP; Honors or MYP World History,Offered to those students enrolled in the International Baccalaureate program and IB certificate students; this two-year course is a combination of college level U.S. history and key topics in Canadian and Latin American history. As juniors; the students explore the early history of the Americas through the 20th Century. Topics include the American Revolution; Latin American Revolutions; slavery; the Civil War; and foreign and domestic policies of the Americas in the 20th Century. The senior year is a contemporary look at the Americas as they relate to the global community. Students will do an in-depth study to prepare for their exam topics while studying the World Wars; 20th century revolutions; the Cold War; and modern issues in politics and foreign affairs. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense and complete a summer assignment for both years.,www.youtube.com/embed/d1o45XCbeoY,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
233,IB History of The Americas 12 HL,Social Studies,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB HOA 11th Grade,Offered to those students enrolled in the International Baccalaureate program and IB certificate students; this two-year course is a combination of college level U.S. history and key topics in Canadian and Latin American history. As juniors; the students explore the early history of the Americas through the 20th Century. Topics include the American Revolution; Latin American Revolutions; slavery; the Civil War; and foreign and domestic policies of the Americas in the 20th Century. The senior year is a contemporary look at the Americas as they relate to the global community. Students will do an in-depth study to prepare for their exam topics while studying the World Wars; 20th century revolutions; the Cold War; and modern issues in politics and foreign affairs. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense and complete a summer assignment for both years.,www.youtube.com/embed/d1o45XCbeoY,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
239,Economics ,Social Studies,11;12,Semester,10,1,,None,This one-semester course open to juniors and seniors is an introductory survey of the American free market system; and the art of making decisions within it; designed to acquaint students with broad concepts and practices and to raise their level of economic literacy. Emphasis is placed on fundamental concepts of both microeconomics and macroeconomics. Some of the concepts presented are scarcity and opportunity; cost; supply; demand; and prices. There will also be discussion about institutions; government; banking; the Federal Reserve; and trade. Practical and realistic economic decision making through simulation is emphasized.,www.youtube.com/embed/BCTNsuur-zE,,X,X,,X,,,X,,,X,X,,,,X
245,AP Macroeconomics & AP Microeconomics,Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Strong Math Background; High Interest and Motivation,Advanced Placement Economics is designed for juniors and seniors who have a strong interest in economics and are highly motivated. The course focus is on the theory underlying basic economic concepts. There is extensive graphic interpretation and analysis of interacting economic policy. These theories are presented in a yearlong course; Macroeconomic theory in the fall; and Microeconomic theory in the spring. ,www.youtube.com/embed/VERx6p-L6wU,,X,X,,X,,,X,,,X,X,,,,X
248,IB Economics (SL),Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Strong Math Background; High Interest and =Motivation,IB Economics is designed for juniors and seniors who have a strong interest in economics and are highly motivated. The course focus is on the theory underlying basic economic concepts. There is extensive graphic interpretation and analysis of interacting economic policy. These theories are presented in two one- semester courses; Macroeconomic theory in the fall; and Microeconomic theory in the spring. IB students prepare a portfolio of economic theory during their studies. This is a Standard Level course. All IB students are expected to take the exam.,www.youtube.com/embed/nqiLW0Tdh4s,,X,X,,X,,,X,,,X,X,,,,X
251,Psychology ,Social Studies,9-12,Semester,10,1,,None,Open to students in grades 9-12; this semester course is designed to give students an introduction to several important topics within the discipline of psychology. Units of study will include introduction to the diverse field of Psychology; the Brain; Perception; Memory; Learning; and Psychological Disorders. Students will be required to participate in a variety of class activities and to complete independent/group projects; reaction papers; and other types of assessment.,www.youtube.com/embed/G1Q6z6jDe_E,X,X,,X,X,,,,X,X,,X,X,X,X,
257,AP Psychology,Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,High Interest; Motivation and Writing Ability,This course is intended for juniors and seniors intending to take the Advanced Placement Exam in May. This is a yearlong course designed to introduce students to the scientific study of behavior and mental processes of human beings and animals. Students will be introduced to the psychological theories; principles; and phenomena associated with each of the major fields within psychology. Students will investigate and use various methods of psychological research in independent projects; which are required for each unit of study.,www.youtube.com/embed/-tOaFHcuYZc?rel=0,X,X,,X,X,,,,X,X,,X,X,X,X,
260,IB Psychology (SL),Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Application,Open to juniors and seniors; this course focuses on the systematic study of human behavior and the mental and experiential factors that influence that behavior. Students will develop an understanding of the historical roots of psychology as well as an appreciation for the diversity of the human experience. Through the study of 3 major perspectives — biological; cognitive; and sociocultural; students will focus on the skills of critical thinking and the methods of empirical investigation that are the hallmark of psychology. Attention will be given to ethical procedures and issues throughout the course. The exploration of human behavior will also consider the opportunity for psychology to improve the human condition. The Standard Level curriculum will provide students with the opportunity to understand research methods through the replication of a simple psychology experiment. Students will also explore an optional subject area in depth. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/rXPIfC9w248,X,X,,X,X,,,,X,X,,X,X,X,X,
263,Sociology ,Social Studies,9-12,Semester,10,1,,None,This one-semester course open to students in grades 9-12; will introduce students to the study of society and society's problems. Students will gain a better understanding of themselves and their social world. This will include basic concepts of sociology; such as culture; society; groups; relationships; gender roles; adolescence; family and marriage patterns; and social movements. Sociology seeks to describe; explain; and possibly predict various aspects of social life; particularly how the groups and the society of which we are a part influence our lives and how we in turn may bring about changes in our times. Students will be required to participate in class group activities and do an in-depth research project on a social issue of their choice.,www.youtube.com/embed/BM-pztPYttA,X,,,,X,,,,,X,,X,X,X,,
269,American Law and Justice,Social Studies,11;12,Year,10,1,,None,American Law and Justice is a full year; junior or senior course designed to provide students with a practical understanding of law and the legal system; to improve understanding of the fundamental principles and values underlying our Constitution; laws; and legal system; to promote awareness of current issues and controversies relating to law and the legal system; to encourage effective citizen participation in our legal system; and to bring about a greater sense of justice; tolerance; and fairness. The course is designed to improve basic skills; including critical thinking and reasoning; communication; observation; and problem solving. The curriculum includes a balance of legal knowledge; application of this knowledge; and experiential activities. Activities include legal case studies; mock-trials; role-plays; small group exercises; and the use of community resource people in the classroom; such as lawyers and police officers. The course includes real-life opportunities related to law such as law-related field trips and job shadowing experiences. ,www.youtube.com/embed/whGEEy7dpDs,,,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,,
272,21st Century Global Affairs ,Social Studies,9-12,Semester,10,1,,None,Open to students in grades 9-12; 21st Century Global Affairs is a dynamic one-semester course designed to address the major global issues and challenges facing the United States and the international community. Presented from an “issue-oriented” perspective; students will analyze and offer solutions to such contemporary global concerns as present-day foreign policy crises; international terrorism; major global economic issues; immigration challenges; international crime; international justice; and genocide. Issues will change from year-to-year to reflect the major challenges of the era.,www.youtube.com/embed/-gk2JIwIzis,,X,X,X,,,,,,X,X,X,,,,X
273,Integrated Studies: Women In History and Literature,Social Studies,10;11;12,Semester,10,1,,None,Integrated Studies is an interdisciplinary; team-taught; and introductory course that explores women's issues through focused literature; historical; and mass media studies. This one semester English and Social Studies elective is open to students in grades 10-12. Students will approach complicated ideas through group dialogue and explore concepts of identity; the nature of power; how we can learn from women and the past; and examine what causes social change. A wide variety of materials will facilitate learning; including readings; documentaries; primary source collections; music; and guest speakers. This course aims to build confidence; empower students to be civically engaged and will foster deep critical thinking skills; reflection and self-awareness. Additionally; students will gain an understanding and appreciation for perspectives of diverse groups; strengthen their leadership skills; and expand their world views for a 21st century global society. ,https://youtu.be/R092xaTsaow,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
300,Algebra 1 Part A,Mathematics,9,Year,10,1,,Pre-Algebra,Using the Carnegie Learning curriculum; which includes an instructional computer program called MATHia; students develop an understanding of Algebra 1 concepts. Through a variety of methods; students are required to be active participants in the learning process by solving real-life problems. Students progress at their own individual paces through the lab work; where they solve real world problems using multiple representations.  In addition; students will participate in classroom activities; both individually and in groups; to further develop comprehension of mathematical concepts and their applications. This innovative approach to Algebra integrates technology; applied mathematics; and cognitive science and is based on 18 years of rigorous research. This course provides the opportunity for students to be flexibly grouped and paced based on need.  A more traditional review of materials is offered as needed. This is the first year of a two-year course. Students who took this course in eighth grade should enroll in course 301 Conceptual Algebra 1; Part B.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/1ipki-2zmns,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
301,Algebra 1 Part B,Mathematics,9,Year,10,1,,Algebra 1 Part A,This is the second year of the two-year Algebra course. Students will continue to progress through the Carnegie Learning curriculum and complete their understanding of Algebra I concepts. This course is intended for students who have completed Algebra 1; Part A in the previous school year. At the end of this course; students will take the Keystone Algebra 1 Exam.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/UBC-4_pKaYc,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
303,Conceptual Geometry,Mathematics,9,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B,The Carnegie Learning curriculum utilizes a non-traditional approach to learning Geometry. Students will work through a variety of geometric situations that provide opportunities for the application of the skills to a real-world scenario. Cooperative learning is utilized in this course when students work together on more complex problem-solving situations.  In addition to cooperative learning; the students will use the MATHia computer program which supports; enriches; and remediates students based on their individual needs. Projects are utilized throughout this course to enhance the student’s experience and learning.  Topics covered during the year will include tools of geometry; parallel and perpendicular lines; perimeter and area; right triangle geometry; transformations; right triangle trigonometry; quadrilaterals; geometry in the coordinate plane; circles; volume and surface area; as well as similarity and congruence as time permits.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/pe-hjS8v1Bs,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
306,Geometry,Mathematics,9;10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B,The logical and conceptual precursors to proof are developed early in Geometry. Topics will include; but are not limited to; fundamental geometric thought; geometric shapes; transformations; and basic geometric reasoning and proofs. Concentrated work with proof writing continues throughout the year; including direct and indirect proofs in both plane and coordinate geometry. Properties and attributes of polygons and circles are emphasized. Solid geometry; right triangle trigonometry; and transformations are introduced second semester.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/GnK13VENZ64,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
307,MYP Geometry,Mathematics,9;10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B,The logical and conceptual precursors to proof are developed early in Geometry. Topics will include; but are not limited to; fundamental geometric thought; geometric shapes; transformations; and basic geometric reasoning and proofs. Concentrated work with proof writing continues throughout the year; including direct and indirect proofs in both plane and coordinate geometry. Properties and attributes of polygons and circles are emphasized. Solid geometry; right triangle trigonometry; and transformations are introduced second semester.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.   ,http://www.youtube.com/embed/GnK13VENZ64,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
309,HN Geometry,Mathematics,9,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B With Middle School Recommendation,All of the objectives in course 306 Geometry are included in this course. However; students are expected to achieve at a higher level; work at a faster pace; and spend more time on exploration and enrichment topics. A strong algebra background is necessary. There is a summer assignment containing skills from Algebra 1 that students must have mastered in order to be successful in this course.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/fqllUYsJqD8,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
310,MYP HN Geometry,Mathematics,9,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B With Middle School Recommendation,All of the objectives in course 306 Geometry are included in this course. However; students are expected to achieve at a higher level; work at a faster pace; and spend more time on exploration and enrichment topics. A strong algebra background is necessary. There is a summer assignment containing skills from Algebra 1 that students must have mastered in order to be successful in this course.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/fqllUYsJqD8,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
312,Conceptual Algebra 2,Mathematics,10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B and Geometry,The Carnegie Learning curriculum utilizes a non-traditional approach to learning Algebra 2. While the skills are presented in the classroom via direct instruction; group work; and other activities; the MATHia computer program supports; enriches and remediates students based on their individual needs. Students will experience real world application projects and assignments to increase their understanding of the material. The following topics will be studied in detail: Linear Functions; Quadratic Functions; Polynomial Functions; Exponential Functions; and Logarithmic Functions. Radical; Rational; and Trigonometric Functions will be included if time permits.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/NV0gg94ckC8,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
315,Algebra 2,Mathematics,10;11,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B and Geometry,In this course; students will primarily focus on the study of functions: linear; quadratic; polynomial; exponential; logarithmic; rational; radical; and trigonometric functions. The use of these functions to model real world situations is a major theme.  Students will utilize the graphing calculator throughout the course.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/z6Cm3UT7LbI,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
316,MYP Algebra 2,Mathematics,10,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Algebra 1 Part A and Algebra 1 Part B and MYP Geometry,In this course; students will primarily focus on the study of functions: linear; quadratic; polynomial; exponential; logarithmic; rational; radical; and trigonometric functions. The use of these functions to model real world situations is a major theme.  Students will utilize the graphing calculator throughout the course.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/z6Cm3UT7LbI,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
318,HN Algebra 2,Mathematics,9;10,Year,10,1,Y,B or higher in Honors Geometry or A in Geometry with Teacher Recommendation,All of the targets in course 315 are included in this course. Students are expected to achieve at a higher level; work at a faster pace; demonstrate more independent initiative and self-advocacy; as well as spend more time on exploration and enrichment topics. These topics may include sequences and series; conic sections; and unit circle trigonometry. There may be a summer assignment containing skills from Algebra 1 that students must have mastered in order to be successful in this course.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/qamaTnDgqNw,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
319,MYP HN Algebra 2,Mathematics,9;10,Year,10,1,Y,B or higher in MYP Honors Geometry or A in MYP Geometry with Teacher Recommendation,All of the targets in course 315 are included in this course. Students are expected to achieve at a higher level; work at a faster pace; demonstrate more independent initiative and self-advocacy; as well as spend more time on exploration and enrichment topics. These topics may include sequences and series; conic sections; and probability. There is a summer assignment containing skills from Algebra 1 that students must have mastered in order to be successful in this course.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning,http://www.youtube.com/embed/qamaTnDgqNw,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
320,Academic Statistics,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,,11th Grade:  Teacher Recommendation and Passing Grades for Both Semesters in Algebra 2; 12th Grade: Passing Grades for Both Semesters in Algebra 2,In this course; students will learn how to collect; organize; analyze; and interpret data in order to reliably answer questions that are relevant in their world. As students study about topics such as data collection; probability; and data analysis; they will learn to recognize when statistics are being used misleadingly; and will be able to argue for or against conclusions drawn from statistical models. Students will have the opportunity to demonstrate their understanding of the concepts studied through project-based assessments incorporating surveys and simulations. Students will make frequent use of the graphing calculator and spreadsheets. For 12th grade students; Algebra 2 must have been completed.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/7e-myTk6cbQ,,X,X,X,X,,,,,,,,,,X,
321,Conceptual Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Semesters of Geometry and Algebra 2,This course is designed for students who want to provide themselves the opportunity to take future math courses; such as calculus; but also desire to strengthen their existing algebra skills. Students will cover most of the same topics as those covered in course 322; but will also spend time refreshing important algebraic skills regarding linear and quadratic functions. Emphasis is placed early on functions in their various forms (polynomial; radical; exponential; logarithmic) with trigonometry and statistics topics treated during the second semester. ,https://www.youtube.com/embed/Nag-y0Ro6ic,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
322,Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,,Passing Grades for Both Semesters of Geometry and Algebra 2,Topics will include; but are not limited to; Number Patterns; Equations and Inequalities; Functions and Graphs; Polynomial and Rational Functions; Exponential and Logarithmic Functions; Trigonometry; Statistics and Probability. Enough trigonometry is available to constitute a standard pre-calculus background in trigonometry. Algebraic and statistical concepts are integrated throughout; and modeling of real phenomena is emphasized. Students use a graphing calculator to plot functions; explore relationships between equations and their graphs; simulate experiments; and generate and analyze data. Students are encouraged to purchase their own graphing calculator.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/h4a5tt1_tw8,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
324,HN Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry,Mathematics,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,B or Higher in Honors Algebra 2 or A in Algebra 2 With Teacher Recommendation,All of the topics considered in course 322 are presented in this course. These topics are covered in greater depth and additional related topics are explored in order to enrich the student’s mathematics experience. Students are encouraged to purchase their own graphing calculator.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/Pjw_Fjv434E,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
327,Differientiated Math,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,,Teacher Recommendation,Individualized learning and mathematical skill building are the primary goals of this course. Candidates for this course will have been identified by their previous math teacher as having a need for this course based on measured gaps in learning that would prevent the student from being successful in the next in-sequence course. Each student who enrolls in this course will take a diagnostic examination using the ALEKS computer program to determine the specific areas in which he or she has needs. Each student will have his or her own learning plan with individual goals for the course; with the underlying purpose being to provide students the support they need to learn the mathematics needed to graduate high school and be successful either in college studies or in the workforce.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/mc5CsWBCIfQ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
333,Calculus,Mathematics,12,Year,10,1,,C or Better for Both Semesters of FST,This course is designed for the student who plans to take calculus at a collegiate level; but would benefit from further mastery of advanced algebra skills. The course will begin with a brief review of functions; statistics; and trigonometry. During this time; students will review topics including factoring; analyzing functions; inverse functions; rational functions; solving equations; and graphing polynomials. The majority of the year will be spent studying topics from Calculus including limits; derivatives; integration; and applications of these concepts. This course will introduce students to much of the content seen in the first semester of a college calculus course.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/LX6znLSDp1E,,X,X,,X,,,X,,,,,,,,
334,College in High School Business Calculus,Mathematics,12,Year,10,1,Y,A in FST With Teacher Recommendation or C or Better in Honors FST,College in High School Business Calculus is a College in High School course (Math 0120) offered through a partnership with the University of Pittsburgh. This is a rigorous; college level calculus course for students interested in business; economics; and other social sciences. Though not required; students have the opportunity; for a fee; to earn 4 college math credits while still in high school.  Students who plan to apply for University of Pittsburgh credit will also need to complete a required online placement exam. An understanding of and confidence with both differential and integral calculus are the objectives of this course. Students will investigate calculus from graphical; numeric; and algebraic perspectives. As per University of Pittsburgh policy; calculators may not be used in this course.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/HGT0_1_xpjM,,X,X,,X,,,X,,,,,,,,
336,AP Calculus AB,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,B or Better in Honors FST With Teacher Recommendation,This course consists of a full academic semester of work in calculus and related topics that are comparable to a first semester university level course. The class is for those students who intend to place out of a comparable college calculus course by successfully passing the AP Examination; a college placement exam; or any other method employed by the student’s college. This is an intensive study of topics in differential and integral calculus; with a small review of prerequisite math topics which include; but are not limited to; advanced algebra techniques and trigonometry. Calculus students will have many opportunities to acquire fundamental skills in using graphing calculators. Mathematically talented students who have received a B or better in Honors Functions; Statistics; and Trigonometry are encouraged to enroll. Students are encouraged to purchase their own graphing calculator. ,http://www.youtube.com/embed/SuP0NezYraE,,X,X,X,X,,,X,X,,,,,,X,
339,AP Calculus BC,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,95% A or Better in Honors FST With Teacher Recommendation,This course is designed for highly motivated and gifted students who have earned an A average in Honors Functions; Statistics; and Trigonometry. This course consists of two full academic semesters of work in calculus and related topics that are comparable to the first two semesters of a university level course. The course will cover the same material as in the AB course plus some additional topics which include such topics as Infinite Sequences and Series and calculus problems dealing with Parametric; Polar; and Vector Functions. Calculus BC is an extremely fast-paced course which emphasizes more exhausting problem solving. Students are encouraged to purchase their own graphing calculator.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/Vy8E7zStyp0,,X,X,X,X,,,X,X,,,,,,X,
342,AP Statistics,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of Algebra 2 With Departmental Recommendation,The purpose of the Advanced Placement course in statistics is to introduce students to the major concepts and tools for collecting; analyzing; and drawing conclusions from data. Students are exposed to four broad conceptual themes: 1. Exploring Data: Observing patterns and departures from pattern; 2. Planning a Study: Deciding what and how to measure; 3. Anticipating patterns: Producing models using probability and simulation; 4. Statistical inference: Confirming models. Students who successfully complete the course and examination may receive credit and/or advanced placement for a one-semester introductory college statistics course. Students are encouraged to purchase their own calculator.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/zY5FQ_gAIwA,,X,X,X,X,,,X,X,,,,,,X,
345,IB Math SL Analysis & Approaches (1st year of Two Year Course),Mathematics,11,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of Geometry and Algebra 2,This course represents the first year of the two-year IB Mathematics Analysis and Approaches Standard Level course.  Students enrolled in this course will study a broad range of topics including numbers and algebra; functions; trigonometry; statistics and probability.  Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense at the end of the year two of this course.  Depending upon enrollment; 345 IB Mathematics SL 1 may be integrated with 322 Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/Pjw_Fjv434E,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
346,HN IB Math SL Analysis & Approaches (1st Year of Two Year Course),Mathematics,11,Year,10,1,Y,Passing Grade for Both Semesters of Geometry and Algebra 2,This course represents the first year of the two-year IB Mathematics Analysis and Approaches Standard Level course.  This course covers all of the same topics that appear in course 345; but in greater depth.  Additional related topics are included to enrich the student’s mathematical experience.  Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense at the end of year two of this course.  Depending upon enrollment; 346 Honors IB Mathematics SL 1 may be integrated with 324 Honors Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
348,IB Math SL (2nd Year of Two Year Course),Mathematics,12,Year,10,1,Y,B or Higher in IB Math SL1 with Teacher Recommendation,The Mathematics Standard Level is designed to provide a background of mathematical thought and a reasonable level of technical ability. It is a demanding program that contains a variety of mathematical topics and requires extensive background knowledge. It does not have the depth found in the Higher Level Mathematics class. Students in this two-year Standard Level course will cover calculus course work and study statistics; probability; vector geometry; circular functions; and trigonometry. In addition; the students will study one of three additional topics: further calculus; further geometry; or statistical methods. This program will enable the student to develop a sound basis of mathematical skills and knowledge in order to facilitate the further study of mathematically related subjects. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense. Depending upon enrollment; 348 IB Mathematics SL 2 may be integrated with 336 AP Calculus AB or 33 Calculus.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/4oG6j4Dczwk,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
351,HN Advanced Math topics,Mathematics,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Math SL2; AP Calculus AB; AP Calculus BC or IB Math HL1 With Teacher Recommendation,This course is designed to give the highly motivated math student experience with a wide variety of mathematical topics that he or she will study in college during the pursuit of a math-or science-based degree. Such topics include; but are not limited to; vectors; linear algebra; probability and statistics; infinite series and differential equations. The graphing calculator is used extensively. This course is combined with 357 IB Mathematics HL2.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/wm4n87rV_6c,,,,X,,,,X,X,,,,,,X,
354,IB Math HL Analysis & Approaches (1st Year of Two Year Course),Mathematics,11,Year,10,1,Y,B or Higher in HN Algebra 2 or A in Algebra 2 With Teacher Recommendation,This course represents the first year of the two-year IB Mathematics Analysis and Approaches Higher Level Course.  In year one; students will study the same curriculum as those students in course 346 (Honors IB Mathematics SL Analysis and Approaches); with differentiation between Standard Level and Higher Level occurring in the second year of the course.  Students enrolled in this course must take the IB at their own expense at the end of year two of this course.  Depending on enrollment; 354 IB Mathematics HL 1 will be combined with 324 Honors Functions; Statistics and Trigonometry.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/bYP6MVseY4A,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
357,IB Math (HL YR 2),Mathematics,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Math HL1 With Teacher Recommmendation,Students in this two-year Higher Level Mathematics course will continue with a more in-depth look at all mathematics topics. This course is designed to teach advanced mathematical topics which are unfamiliar to the high school student. Such topics included are advanced calculus; discrete math including number theory; linear/abstract algebra; series and differential equations; analysis and approximation; and Euclidean geometry and conic sections. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense. 354 IB Mathematics HL 1 will be combined with 339 AP Calculus BC. 357 IB Mathematics HL 2 will be combined with 351 Advanced Mathematics Topics.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/hkdg7hQvv1U,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
358,College in High School Introduction to Matrices and Linear Algebra,Mathematics,12,Year,Varied,1,Y,AB Calculus AB Score of 4 or 5 or an AP Calculus BC AB-Subscore of 4 or 5 with Teacher Recommendation,Introduction to Matrices and Linear Algebra is a College in High School Course (Math 0280) offered in partnership with the University of Pittsburgh.  The principal topics of the course include vectors; matrices; determinants; linear transformations; eigenvalues and eigenvectors; and selected applications.  Though not required; students have the opportunity; for a fee; to earn college math credits while still in high school.  A course in matrices and linear algebra is required for engineering and physics majors at the University of Pittsburgh and many other universities. ,https://www.chs.pitt.edu/chs-courses,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
400,Conceptual Biology,Science,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,Conceptual Biology is a course designed to provide a survey of important biological concepts in a very structured classroom atmosphere. As part of the course students can expect homework most nights of the week. Second chance learning opportunities are provided for students to learn from and correct mistakes. The course will explore (1) cells and cell processes; which include basic biological principles; the chemical basis for life; bioenergetics; homeostasis; transport; and (2) the continuity and unity of life which includes cell growth; cell reproduction; genetics; evolution; and ecology. The course covers the material assessed on the Biology Keystone Exam.,www.youtube.com/embed/vZ8-2C1TR7w,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
403,Academic Biology,Science,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,Academic Biology is a course designed to give students an overview of biological concepts. In this two-semester course; students will explore the nature of science through experimental design. This course is a combination of teacher led instruction and student driven investigation; which requires work outside of the classroom several evenings a week. The course will explore (1) cells and cell processes which include basic biological principles; chemical basis for life; bioenergetics and homeostasis and transport and (2) continuity and unity of life which includes cell growth and reproduction; genetics; evolution and ecology. The course covers the material assessed on the Biology Keystone Exam.,http://www.youtube.com/embed/n_XUrG8uKY8,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
404,MYP Academic Biology,Science,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,Academic Biology is a course designed to give students an overview of biological concepts. In this two-semester course; students will explore the nature of science through experimental design. This course is a combination of teacher led instruction and student driven investigation; which requires work outside of the classroom several evenings a week. The course will explore (1) cells and cell processes which include basic biological principles; chemical basis for life; bioenergetics and homeostasis and transport and (2) continuity and unity of life which includes cell growth and reproduction; genetics; evolution and ecology. The course covers the material assessed on the Biology Keystone Exam.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yr2kVRldd0Q,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
406,HN Biology,Science,9;10,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,Honors Biology is open to motivated students who wish to undertake a more in-depth study of biology. Laboratory work is utilized to stimulate; enhance; and promote critical thinking skills. This course is a combination of teacher led instruction and student driven investigation; which requires work outside of the classroom every evening to have a better understanding of the in-depth challenging concepts. The course will explore (1) cells and cell processes which include basic biological principles; chemical basis for life; bioenergetics and homeostasis and transport and (2) continuity and unity of life which includes cell growth and reproduction; genetics; evolution and ecology. The course covers the material assessed on the Biology Keystone Exam.,www.youtube.com/embed/Cymf3iQob1k,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
409,MYP HN Biology,Science,9;10,Year,10,1,Y,Middle School Recommendation,Honors Biology is open to motivated students who wish to undertake a more in-depth study of biology. Laboratory work is utilized to stimulate; enhance; and promote critical thinking skills. This course is a combination of teacher led instruction and student driven investigation; which requires work outside of the classroom every evening to have a better understanding of the in-depth challenging concepts. The course will explore (1) cells and cell processes which include basic biological principles; chemical basis for life; bioenergetics and homeostasis and transport and (2) continuity and unity of life which includes cell growth and reproduction; genetics; evolution and ecology. The course covers the material assessed on the Biology Keystone Exam.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lIskMKpbc1k,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
412,HN Biology Topics,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry,Honors Biology Topics is a two-semester course offered as an elective to motivated junior and senior students who are interested in exploring more deeply several selected topics in the field of life science. The course primarily focuses on an in-depth study of the following topics: ecology; botany; genetics; and animal behavior and learning. Students will be required to complete quarterly research projects in natural history (The Great Biology Scavenger Hunt); botany (Botany 101); genetics (the Fruit Fly Project); and animal behavior and learning (The Mouse Olympics).,http://www.youtube.com/embed/G2qpFrwuwRk,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
415,HN Human Anatomy Physiology,Science,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology ,This two-semester laboratory elective is an intensive; comprehensive study of human anatomy and the processes that underlie the physiological mechanisms of boy systems. As well as providing insight into these biological processes; the body systems and their functions will be examined in reference to disease states; in terms of the events that occur during pathophysiological conditions. This course is open to students who are interested in pursuing a career in the health-related field.,www.youtube.com/embed/vCyWbFQg-9g,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,X,
418,AP Biology,Science,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry,This course is a highly challenging two-semester laboratory course equivalent to a first level college biology course. It is specifically designed to follow the Advanced Placement curriculum. This curriculum will greatly enhance students’ confidence and academic interest in the areas of cellular biology; heredity; molecular genetics; evolutionary biology; and plant and animal physiology. Emphasis will be placed on the concepts and themes of biology. Students who complete this course have the option of taking the AP Biology Examination and receiving college credit for their work.,http://youtu.be/UuMCamMVQiM,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
420,HN Bioinformatics,Science,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology,Honors Bioinformatics is an essential course for careers in healthcare; biotech; and pharmaceutical industries. Bioinformatics is a powerful set of tools at the crossroads of big data and genetics. The course explores the computer-based tools that help us investigate links between genes; proteins; genetic techniques; and disease. Topics in this course include precision medicine; DNA and genes; medical research; NCBI databases; and genetic engineering. Honors Bioinformatics is a two-semester course.,,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
427,Conceptual Chemistry,Science,10;11,Year,10,1,,Biology,This course is intended for those students whose academic plans require a less quantitative treatment of the study of Chemistry. The same general outline of topics is used as in Academic Chemistry; but with less emphasis on the mathematical aspects of this science. The practical applications of Chemistry are stressed along with more experimental work and demonstrations. The structure; composition; and properties of matter; along with the change matter undergoes during chemical reactions; are studied.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ohtccHCeIP4,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
430,Academic Chemistry,Science,10;11,Year,10,1,,Biology; Suggested Concurrent Math Course: Algebra 2,This course is designed to meet the needs of those students who enroll as a matter of general interest; as well as those who may need to take a science as a part of their program at the college level. Using lecture and a laboratory-oriented approach; students will learn and understand the basic concepts underlying the facts; formulas; and principles that compose a high school chemistry course. Critical-thinking and problem-solving skills will be developed not only to use in chemistry; but by extension; to use in everyday life.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-9nhAg9IfU,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
431,MYP Academic Chemistry,Science,10,Year,10,1,,Biology/MYP Biology; Suggested Concurrent Math Course: MYP Algebra 2,This course is designed to meet the needs of those students who enroll as a matter of general interest; as well as those who may need to take a science as a part of their program at the college level. Using lecture and a laboratory-oriented approach; students will learn and understand the basic concepts underlying the facts; formulas; and principles that compose a high school chemistry course. Critical-thinking and problem-solving skills will be developed not only to use in chemistry; but by extension; to use in everyday life.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_gHpnq_1kE&feature=youtu.be,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
433,HN Chemistry,Science,10;11,Year,10,1,Y,HN Biology or Departmental Recommendation; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  HN Algebra 2,This course is designed to meet the needs of those students with a strong background in science and mathematics who intend to pursue science as a major at the college level in the fields of Engineering; Medicine; etc. The theoretical concepts and mathematics of beginning chemistry are dealt with in greater depth in both lecture and laboratory work than in Academic Chemistry. This course followed by AP Chemistry in the junior or senior year is meant to prepare the student for a rigorous freshman college chemistry course.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6SCW8tD3z08,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
436,MYP HN Chemistry,Science,10,Year,10,1,Y,HN Biology/MYP HN Biology; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  MYP HN Algebra 2,This course is designed to meet the needs of those students with a strong background in science and mathematics who intend to pursue science as a major at the college level in the fields of Engineering; Medicine; etc. The theoretical concepts and mathematics of beginning chemistry are dealt with in greater depth in both lecture and laboratory work than in Academic Chemistry. This course followed by AP Chemistry in the junior or senior year is meant to prepare the student for a rigorous freshman college chemistry course.  MYP instruction will emphasize IB principles; such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jOUK9L8xDgU&feature=youtu.be,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
437,HN Organic Chemistry,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,A or B in HN Chemistry or A in Academic Chemistry,This is a two semester introductory course to the basic principles of the chemistry of carbon compounds. It is intended primarily for those students wishing to pursue an undergraduate degree in biology; chemistry; engineering; pharmacy; or medicine. Course topics include structure and bonding; stereochemistry; nomenclature; reactions and properties of aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons and their derivatives (including alcohols; esters; ethers; aldehydes; ketones; amines; amides; and others); and mechanisms. Classroom discussions will be extended through laboratory investigations where students will learn to synthesize and analyze organic compounds. Students will be introduced to organic laboratory techniques that include methods for purification; isolation; synthesis; and analysis of organic compounds. ,http://youtu.be/i4n2it4351s,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,X,
439,Forensic Science,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,,Biology; Chemistry,This is a two-semester course that emphasizes the application of science to criminal investigation.  Students will apply the foundations of biology; chemistry; anatomy; to solve mock crime scenarios using a wide range of laboratory techniques to process and analyze evidence.  This course utilizes lecture; laboratory activities and experiments; case study analyses; mock crime scenarios and some hybrid learning experiences.  These could include virtual labs and various online activities and research.  This laboratory course will focus on scientific inquiry; logical thinking skills; and problem solving procedures to understand how science can be crucial in solving crimes and how this information is gathered and used in a Court of Law.  Topics covered in forensic science include introduction to forensic science; documentation of a crime scene; analysis of physical evidence; mock trial project; fingerprints; document examination; hair and fiber evidence and forensic serology.  ,https://youtu.be/6m0k-beeAcM,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,X,,
440,HN Forensic Science,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry and Concurrently Taking Physics,This is a two-semester course based on principles and procedures employed in criminal and civil investigations and introductory analyses performed by forensic scientists.  The study of forensics brings together topics students have studied in chemistry; physics; and biology and challenges students to think “outside the box” and apply what they have learned to a variety of situations. This course is meant for motivated juniors and seniors who have completed or are concurrently enrolled in physics.  In this course; students will apply the techniques that professionals use to identify and collect evidence; analyze and compare it; and use the results to locate criminal perpetrators.  This course will take you from the crime scene to the laboratory to the courtroom.  This course utilizes lecture; laboratory activities and experiments; case study analyses; mock crime scenarios and some hybrid learning experiences.  Additional topics covered in honors forensic science include forensic anthropology; forensic entomology; blood spatter analysis; ballistics; forensic toxicology; advanced topics in DNA and digital and computer forensic science.  ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=17PqtEkcSAs&feature=youtu.be,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,X,,
442,AP Chemistry,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Chemistry,This course is designed to be the equivalent of the General Chemistry courses taken during the first year of college. It will also prepare the student to take and pass the AP Chemistry Examination.The topics included in detail are: the structure of matter; which includes atomic theory and structure; chemical bonding; and nuclear chemistry; states of matter including gases; liquids; solids; and solutions; reactions; which include reaction types; stoichiometry; equilibrium; kinetics; and thermodynamics; descriptive chemistry to include chemical reactivity and products of chemical reactions; relationships in the periodic table; and an introduction to organic chemistry. In addition; an AP Chemistry laboratory program will be included.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TnDqfdcqg5U,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
448,AP Environmental Science,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry,Environmental science is certainly one of the most applicable science courses available to students.  The focus of the course is to learn about the natural world in which we live and our impact on the planet. This course follows the Advanced Placement curriculum and is designed to be the equivalent of a one-semester introductory college course in environmental science.  The structure of the course includes outside class reading and note taking; laboratory investigations; and many student-centered learning activities. Both individual and group projects will be assigned throughout the year.  The course is divided into seven major themes including: (1) Ecology; (2) Population Dynamics; (3) Water Resources and Pollution; (4) Earth Resources and Energy; (5) Toxicity; Pesticides; and Agriculture; (6) Atmosphere Issues; and (7) Biodiversity; Politics; and Economics. Throughout each unit; students will be challenged to examine the environmental and economic impact of human actions with the ecosystem.  ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jdR7woyumNE,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,X,
450,Conceptual Physics,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,,Biology; Chemistry; Suggested Concurrent Math Course: Algebra 2,Conceptual physics is a course designed to provide a survey of important physics topics. This course is intended for those students whose academic plans require a less quantitative treatment of physics topics. Application of physics relationships will be performed through problem solving with single-step solutions. Students will spend extra time on concepts to develop critical thinking skills; then students will transfer these skills to similar situations. Additionally; students will clearly acknowledge the application of physics topics in modern society.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IVZU5Mgc6oY,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
451,Academic Physics,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,,Biology; Chemistry; Suggested Concurrent Math Course: FST,Physics is a way of thinking. It is a continuing effort to solve problems; to answer questions; and to understand and interpret our physical environment in a logical and orderly way. Basic concepts presented are measurement and motion including Newton’s Laws; energy and momentum; waves including general wave properties; sound and light; electricity including static electricity; electricity production and simple circuits.  Measurement and problem-solving techniques are emphasized. Students should have strong math skills and be able to apply algebra; basic geometry and trigonometry.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r8cmnHk-lgk,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
456,AP Physics 1,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,HN Chemistry and Departmental Recommendation; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  HN FST,This course includes topics both in classical and modern physics. It is equivalent to a first-semester college course in algebra-based physics. The content covered in this course will be Newtonian mechanics (including rotational dynamics and angular momentum); work; energy; and power; mechanical waves and sound; and an introduction to electric circuits. Knowledge of algebra and basic trigonometry is required for the course. Performing inquiry-based investigations and understanding of the basic principles involved and the ability to apply these principles in the solution of problems is a major goal of the course. Consequently; the course will utilize guided inquiry and student-centered learning to foster the development of critical thinking skills.This course is focused on a series of learning objectives that clarify the knowledge and the skills students should demonstrate to promote a more engaging and rigorous experience for AP students. Each learning objective combines the physics content with one or more of seven foundational big ideas in physics.Inquiry-based investigations will be emphasized for this course. Students will develop and use physics knowledge by applying it to the practice of science inquiry. These investigations will foster student engagement in the practice of science through experimenting; analyzing; making conjectures and arguments; and solving problems in a collaborative setting; where they direct and monitor their progress toward an academic goal.This is a rigorous course with selected lecture times. Benchmark assessments; variable lab times; and mastery model assessment will be used. Inquiry-based investigations and appropriate scientific reasoning will be used as a guide in learning the concepts. This course provides a foundation in physics for students in the life sciences; pre-medicine; and some applied sciences; as well as other fields not directly related to science. This course is designed to prepare the student to take the AP Physics 1 Examination.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5xnf9W8C3t4,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
457,AP Physics C: Mechanics,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Honors Level Math; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  HN FST or Higher,"AP Physics C is a calculus based two-semester physics course dealing mainly with the basic concepts of classical mechanics. This course is highly suggested for any student that would like to pursue a career in science; math; or engineering.  This course will primarily center on problem solving strategies in addressing both qualitative and quantitative analyses. Laboratory and computer activities will supplement this problem-solving focus. This course is designed to prepare the student to take the AP Physics ""C"" Examination. A detailed and mathematically rigorous treatment of mechanics will be presented. The required calculus will be taught at the beginning of the year.  Calculus will be used freely in both developing theory and solving problems. A TI-89 calculator is highly recommended for use in this course.  Students taking this rigorous course may select to take the course as pass/fail after conferencing with the instructor at the end of the semester.  A grade of P/F will count towards graduation credit but not affect GPA.  ",http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBRNV8qAimM,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
458,AP Physics C: Electricity & Magnetism,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Honors Level Math; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  HN FST or Higher,"AP Physics C is a calculus based two-semester physics course dealing mainly with the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism. This course is highly suggested for any student that would like to pursue a career in science; math; or engineering.  This course will primarily center on problem solving strategies in addressing both qualitative and quantitative analyses. Laboratory and computer activities will supplement this problem-solving focus. This course is designed to prepare the student to take the AP Physics ""C"" Examination. A detailed and mathematically rigorous treatment of electricity and magnetism will be presented. The required calculus will be taught at the beginning of the year.  Calculus will be used freely in both developing theory and solving problems. A TI-89 calculator is highly recommended for use in this course. Students taking this rigorous course may select to take the course as pass/fail after conferencing with the instructor at the end of the semester.  A grade of P/F will count towards graduation credit but not affect GPA.  ",http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QdjzToLlDhY,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
459,IB Physics SL,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  FST or IB Math HL YR 1,The Diploma Program physics course allows students to develop traditional practical skills and techniques and increase facility in the use of mathematics; which is the language of physics. It also allows students to develop interpersonal skills and information and communication technology skills; which are essential in modern scientific endeavor and are important life-enhancing transferable skills in their own right. This is a one-year course. Preparation for the IB Physics Standard Level test at the end of the year is a priority. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense.   An “A” or “B” in Honors Chemistry or an “A” in Chemistry with a teacher recommendation; as well as a “B” or higher in Honors Algebra 2; is a prerequisite for IB Physics.  Students who do not meet this prerequisite should select an alternate IB Group 4 course: IB Computer Science SL or IB Environmental Systems and Societies SL. ,http://youtu.be/1r2AWIg0OFs,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
460,IB Physics 1(HL11),Science,11,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  FST or IB Math HL YR 1,The Diploma Program physics course allows students to develop traditional practical skills and techniques and increase facility in the use of mathematics; which is the language of physics. It also allows students to develop interpersonal skills and information and communication technology skills; which are essential in modern scientific endeavor and are important life-enhancing; transferable skills in their own right. This course is a two-year course. Year one will cover the core material along with Physics SL students. Year two will cover the remainder of the topics and will follow the International Baccalaureate format. Preparation for the IB Physics Higher Level test is a priority. Students enrolled in these courses must take the IB exam at their own expense at the end of their senior year.,http://youtu.be/JcD1Q9HMzZ4,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
463,IB Physics 2(HL12),Science,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Physics 1 HL; Suggested Concurrent Math Course:  IB Math HL YR2 or Calculus,The Diploma Program physics course allows students to develop traditional practical skills and techniques and increase facility in the use of mathematics; which is the language of physics. It also allows students to develop interpersonal skills and information and communication technology skills; which are essential in modern scientific endeavor and are important life-enhancing; transferable skills in their own right. This course is a two-year course. Year one will cover the core material along with Physics SL students. Year two will cover the remainder of the topics and will follow the International Baccalaureate format. Preparation for the IB Physics Higher Level test is a priority. Students enrolled in these courses must take the IB exam at their own expense at the end of their senior year. An “A” or “B” in Honors Chemistry or an “A” in Chemistry with a teacher recommendation; as well as a “B” or higher in Honors Algebra 2; is a prerequisite for IB Physics.  Students who do not meet this prerequisite should select an alternate IB Group 4 course: IB Computer Science SL or IB Environmental Systems and Societies SL. ,http://youtu.be/iTTIEXpzCjE,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
466,IB Environmental Systems & Societies SL ,Science,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology; Chemistry,IB Environmental Systems and Societies (ESS) is an interdisciplinary group 3 and group 4 IB standard level course.  Students can take ESS and have it count as either a group 3 or a group 4 course; or as both.  The program is grounded in both a scientific explanation of environmental systems and their functions and also explores the cultural; economic; political; and social interactions of societies within the environment.  The structure of the course includes outside class reading and note taking; laboratory investigations; and many student-centered learning activities.  The course will be paired with the AP Environmental Science course.  (See the AP Environmental Science description for more detail). Students taking IB ESS are expected to take the IB exam at their own expense in addition to completing the internal assessment; a student-designed and implemented investigation of an ESS research question. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
469,HN Laboratory Research and Techniques In Science (LABRATS),Science,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Biology,This two-semester hands-on laboratory elective will provide an opportunity for exposure to the skills and techniques required in scientific research.  Students will be engaged in the practice of science; enabling them to become logical problem solvers and people who understand scientific judgment and how science works.  These ends will be accomplished by providing authentic and sustained inquiry-based experiences that include continual reflection; critique; and evaluation.  Students will be expected to provide explanations; develop models; plan; and conduct investigations.  Content will be driven via an experiential approach to guide learning.  The spectrum of learning will encompass skills associated with scientific research including basic lab techniques; data analysis; and scientific writing.  Areas of biology covered will include biochemistry; biotechnology; microbiology; and physiology of living organisms.  Students will apply knowledge and skills to pursue an advanced independent lab-based research project while potentially collaborating with research scientists through academic partnerships with local universities. ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pWzuYrX5DBA&feature=youtu.be,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
500,Passport to French,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course is for students who want to begin a first or second world language or for students who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher. Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for level two; but it also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel applications.  This course will be taught with inclusions of hybrid experiences where applicable to customize instruction to student needs.,www.youtube.com/embed/lxt4Im7jPjs,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
501,MYP Passport to French,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,This course is for students who want to begin a first or second world language or for students who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher. Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for level two; but it also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel applications. The course will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.  This course will be taught with inclusions of hybrid experiences where applicable to customize instruction to student needs.,www.youtube.com/embed/lxt4Im7jPjs,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
502,French 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Middle School French or Passport to French,This course provides a review and continuation of the middle school French program and the Passport to French course.  There is a continued emphasis on the French oral and written proficiency with the inclusion of authentic materials throughout the course.  Throughout the course; students will be expected to begin creating with the language.  Many different types of activities and varied drills are used to reinforce the language structures.,www.youtube.com/embed/6Xo4Dqi8AEo,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
504,MYP French 2,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1,,Middle School French or MYP Passport to French,The course objectives and content of French 2 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects. This course will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/0zKPQ7pnd0c,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
506,French 3,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,French 2,This third-year course continues the proficiency approach to world language study. Listening comprehension and speaking continue to be stressed. The structure of the language is further studied at this level with emphasis placed on verb usage and communication. The class stresses conversational situations. Small group discussions stress practical application of vocabulary and structures mastered in class groups. Multimedia activities in cultural contexts continue to strengthen the four basic skills: reading and writing; speaking and listening. Computer lessons reinforce grammatical points. ,www.youtube.com/embed/eRMH_6SayQM,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
508,MYP French 3,Electives,10,Year,10,1,,MYP French 2,The course objectives and content of French 3 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects; these opportunities will help students to do well with the MYP activities needed to earn the MYP Certificate. This course also includes an emphasis on IB principles such as Areas of Interaction; global connections; and the development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/bBrsb7oe7Uc,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
510,HN French 4,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,French 3/MYP French 3,This course offers students the opportunity to improve speaking skills through communicative partner activities and class discussions on cultural topics and the world of students. It will also help students to improve writing skills and knowledge of language structure through paragraph composition.,www.youtube.com/embed/Dgd_uYX6Hbs,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
512,HN French 5,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,HN French 4,This course offers a dual purpose: to provide the student with opportunities to converse on topics of current significance and in practical travel situations; and to offer opportunities to perfect the control of French structure through paragraph composition and oral presentations. An extensive review of the major grammatical principles of French is conducted throughout the year. Work is done in the language lab. Additional activities include films; videos; and computer assignments. Students further develop cross-cultural competency by examining a broader French-speaking world.,www.youtube.com/embed/zsE71qExHMI,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
514,AP French Language,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,Teacher Recommendation,This course emphasizes the development of active communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on speaking; writing; listening; and reading skills. Fluency and accuracy are stressed. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of French grammar is also completed to prepare for college French. This course is designed for intellectually curious and hard-working students; who; as self-starters; are expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. Discussions on various topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Writing and speaking portfolios will assist students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students who are interested in a challenging course and who will sit for the AP test in their senior year at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/ZGsBBn1zFpE,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
515,IB French 4 SLHL11,Electives,11,Year,10,1,Y,French 3/MYP French 3,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. This two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency-based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of grammar is also completed. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors French 4 or Honors French 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course are required to take either the standard or higher level IB exam at their own expense. ,,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
516,IB French 5 SLHL12,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB French 4 or Teacher Recommendation,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. This two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency-based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of grammar is also completed. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors French 4 or Honors French 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course are required to take either the standard or higher level IB exam at their own expense. ,www.youtube.com/embed/3BHnYVP6CQA,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
518,Passport to German,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course is for students who want to begin a first or second world language or for students who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher. Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for level two; but it also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel applications.,www.youtube.com/embed/v7un8cO750k,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
519,MYP Passport to German,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,This course is for students who want to begin a first or second world language or for students who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher. Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for level two; but it also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel applications. The course will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning,www.youtube.com/embed/v7un8cO750k,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
520,German 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Middle School German or Passport to German,This course provides a review and continuation of the middle school German program and the Passport to German course. The second-year course continues the emphasis on understanding and speaking German; and adds more emphasis on reading and writing than the first year. The goals of the program are to (1) master a basic vocabulary through further acquisition of reading skills; (2) continue aural-oral practice; (3) introduce German culture through conversations and readings and (4) expand the grammar control for formally analyzing familiar structures.,www.youtube.com/embed/RQAVDB6q5rs,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
522,MYP German 2,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1,,Middle School German or MYP Passport to German,The course objectives and content of German 2 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects. This course will include a focus on the MYP global contexts.,www.youtube.com/embed/ySrMY8_BHpY,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
524,German 3,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,German 2,During the third year of German the student continues to use the language skills acquired in the first and second years but with greater accuracy. The student is now required to use the language and previously learned structure and vocabulary to produce spontaneous conversation. Emphasis is placed on oral and written proficiency using the vocabulary for daily living. Units studied include vacations; health; shopping; geography; city parts; and directions. Students prepare individual cultural presentations on the various cities in Germany as well as the other German-speaking nations. Students review points of grammar as a supplement to these units. Although emphasis on reading and writing continues; the majority of class time is spent on improving oral proficiency. ,www.youtube.com/embed/e35h-ePQsqg,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
526,MYP German 3,Electives,10,Year,10,1,,MYP German 2,The course objectives and content of German 3 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects; these opportunities will help students to do well with the MYP activities needed to earn the MYP Certificate. This course also includes an emphasis on IB principles such as Areas of Interaction; global connections; and the development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/yLE-sZDTlko,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
528,HN German 4,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,German 3 or MYP German 3,The Germans of today and a brief introduction to literature comprise the content of this course. The people are understood through readings about their history and about current issues. Topics such as the environment; the school system; the political structure; and the post-war attitude toward war are discussed. Short stories and poems by such authors as Boell and Borchert; are also presented. The main emphasis throughout the course; however; is the improvement of conversation and composition skills so that the student learns to speak and write more quickly; accurately; and fluently. Special cultural projects (festivals; Karneval; cafes; television; etc.) revolving around student interest round out the content of this course. ,www.youtube.com/embed/r9Cl7O3tXc8,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
530,HN German 5,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,HN German 4,Students can practice and perfect their speaking and comprehending of German in this course while learning about both the Germany of today and also its literary heritage. Textbooks based on speaking activities and literary selections from various periods and genres provide the basis of class discussion in the target language. A review of grammar enables students not only to structure thoughts correctly but also to prepare well for future study in German. Special cultural projects based on student interest (a cafe; an architecture trip; an immersion day; interviews with Germans; festivals; etc.) round out this course. ,www.youtube.com/embed/Kys7rM6_kYw,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
532,AP German Language,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,Teacher Recommendation,This course emphasizes the development of active communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on speaking; writing; listening; and reading skills. Fluency and accuracy are stressed. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language material; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of German grammar is also completed to prepare for college German. This course is designed for intellectually curious and hard-working students; who; as self-starters; are expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. Discussions on various topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Writing and speaking portfolios will assist students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students who are interested in a challenging course and who will sit for the AP test in their senior year at their own expense.,http://youtu.be/96DXKE1TZb0,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
533,IB German 4 SLHL11,Electives,11,Year,10,1,Y,German 3 or MYP German 3,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. This two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency-based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of German grammar is also completed. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors German 4 or Honors German 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course are required to take the IB exam at their own expense. ,www.youtube.com/embed/3CdD2JR9h-U,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
534,IB German 5 SLHL12,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB German 4 or Teacher Recommendation,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. This two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency-based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of German grammar is also completed. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors German 4 or Honors German 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course are required to take the IB exam at their own expense. ,www.youtube.com/embed/3CdD2JR9h-U,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
536,Latin 1,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,The first level Latin course presents an introduction to the Latin language. The course is based on the text Ecce Romani that follows a Roman family in the First Century A.D. The objectives of this course are to build Latin vocabulary and basic grammar skills through drills and memorization for the purpose of reading Latin; and to introduce students to Roman daily life. The course is analytical in nature with a heavy focus on memorizing vocabulary; analyzing grammar; and reading Latin for comprehension. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y130jrdRTeg,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
538,Latin 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Latin 1,This course continues with the same text series and objectives as Latin 1. As students master more vocabulary and grammar; they will be able to read more challenging stories. A heavy emphasis continues to be placed on memorization of vocabulary and forms.,http://youtu.be/mChQUwtIsDU,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
540,Latin 3,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Latin 2,The Ecce Romani text series remains a source of vocabulary; grammar and translation practice; and cultural information for third-year students; who also begin reading some authentic texts. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q0lUQmfVQkg&feature=youtu.be&hd=1,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
542,HN Latin 4,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Latin 3,Students continue to learn new vocabulary; word forms; and syntax in Latin 4 and then move on to reading authentic texts.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h10gCXO3TMA,,,,,,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
544,Passport to Spanish,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course is designed for students with a prior Spanish middle school background who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher.  Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for success at level two and teaches materials covered by the middle school level with a thematic applicable approach.  The course also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel and cultural applications.   This course also includes enrichment opportunities for students with no prior Spanish knowledge.,,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
545,MYP Passport to Spanish,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1,,None,This course is designed for students with a prior Spanish middle school background who have been recommended for the course by their middle school teacher.  Newly designed; it focuses on proficiency and vocabulary necessary for success at level two and teaches materials covered by the middle school level with a thematic applicable approach.  The course also incorporates interdisciplinary themes and practical travel and cultural applications.   This course also includes enrichment opportunities for students with no prior Spanish knowledge. The course will emphasize IB principles such as global contexts; Approaches to Learning; international mindedness; the Learner Profile; and development of skills for lifelong learning.,,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
548,Spanish 2 FLES/MSE,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Passport to Spanish or Middle School Spanish; Teacher Recommendation,This course is for students who have successfully completed the middle school program. This course provides review and continuation of the fundamentals from the district’s elementary and middle school Spanish programs and begins the Level 2 text. It provides the opportunity for greater accuracy in all skill areas: speaking; listening; reading; and writing. Emphasis is placed on oral and written proficiency with continued practice in reading and listening skills. These skills are acquired and reinforced through a variety of activities; including the video series “Destinos”. In addition; the appreciation and understanding of the Spanish culture is emphasized through a variety of authentic activities. Excellence of class participation and communicative abilities are essential for final evaluation.,www.youtube.com/embed/qAArszii01k,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
550,MYP Spanish 2 FLES/MSE,Electives,9;10,Year,10,1, ,Passport Spanish or Middle School Spanish; Teacher Recommendation,The course objectives and content of Spanish 2 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects. This course also includes an emphasis on IB principles such as Areas of Interaction; global connections; and the development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/Lye7ONsQwtk,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
552,HN Spanish 3,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1, ,Spanish 2 FLES/MSE or Teacher Recommendation,This course is designed to review and continue the fundamentals of second language acquisition. The goal; at this level; is to achieve language proficiency in the present and past tenses and to express future time in speaking and in writing. Emphasis is placed on the ability to begin to create language. The basic text is used for grammar instruction; plus supplementary material to enhance the appreciation and understanding of the Hispanic culture. Excellence in communicative abilities; written compositions; essays; and written exams are essential for final evaluation.,www.youtube.com/embed/Ih3N2IGUxQE,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
554,MYP HN Spanish 3,Electives,10,Year,10,1, ,MYP Spanish 2 FLES/MSE or Teacher Recommendation,The course objectives and content of Honors Spanish 3 are included in this course; but they are expanded to include more opportunities for the development of higher-level proficiency and of cross-cultural understanding. This includes more discussion; more short readings from the target language/culture; and more special projects; these opportunities will help students to do well with the MYP activities needed to earn the MYP Certificate. This course also includes an emphasis on IB principles such as Areas of Interaction; global connections; and the development of skills for lifelong learning.,www.youtube.com/embed/LLlBNdp3m5g,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
556,HN Spanish 4,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,HN Spanish 3/MYP HN Spanish 3,The goal of this course is to prepare students for advanced level work which emphasizes comprehension; communication in speech and writing; and an appreciation of the Spanish language and culture. The emphasis is on class and partner discussion; reading; listening to some authentic and other texts; and improving writing skills. These goals will be met through a series of grammatical and cultural units which the students will relate to their own lives.,www.youtube.com/embed/5ia7CJyPfB8,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
558,HN Spanish 5,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,HN Spanish 4,This course offers the opportunity for students to improve their language skills in all modes of communication: interpersonal; interpretative; presentational. It also enables them to improve their writing skills and sense of language structure through a comprehensive verb tense review in order to prepare for college Spanish. Discussions on various cultural and historical topics; plus contemporary issues encourage students to express and defend their opinions. This is a challenging course that stresses fluency; accuracy and appreciation for the Spanish culture.,www.youtube.com/embed/ZIqjS-fnirU,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
559,AP Spanish Lang,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,Teacher Recommendation,This course emphasizes the development of active communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on speaking; writing; listening; and reading skills. Fluency and accuracy are stressed. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. A thorough review of Spanish grammar is also completed to prepare for college Spanish. This course is designed for intellectually curious and hard-working students; who; as self-starters; are expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. Discussions on various topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Writing and speaking portfolios will assist students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students who are interested in a challenging course and who will sit for the AP test in their senior year at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/13WC7wYzKu4,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
560,IB Spanish 4 SL11,Electives,11,Year,10,1,Y,HN Spanish 3/MYP HN Spanish 3,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. Over these two years; a thorough review of grammar is completed. In addition; this two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors Spanish 4 or Honors Spanish 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense. ,www.youtube.com/embed/vZQw1YRDzss,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
561,IB Spanish 5 HL12,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Spanish 4 or Teacher Recommendation,Although this course is taught at the Higher Level; students have the option to sit for the Standard or Higher Level IB Exam. Over these two years; a thorough review of grammar is completed. In addition; this two-year course emphasizes the development of communicative language proficiency. The world language is the primary means of communication in this class which focuses on authentic language skills. These skills are practiced in a context centered on authentic language materials; oral and written reactions to these materials; an oral proficiency based text; as well as partner/group interactions and individual/group presentations. This course is designed for the intellectually curious and hard-working student who; as a self-starter; is expected to progress quickly and become quite proficient in a second language while still in high school. The curriculum is designed so that the students consider issues of a human and global nature; such as the significance of family; the nature of culture; the environment; etc. Discussions on such topics are numerous and are the highlight of the curriculum. Students are evaluated according to both IB and USC standards. Moreover; the use of writing and speaking portfolios will assist the students in recognizing and valuing their own progress. This course is designed for students interested in the full IB Diploma Program or in a more challenging course than Honors Spanish 4 or Honors Spanish 5. An IB Individual Course Certificate will be earned after successful IB test results. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense. ,www.youtube.com/embed/vZQw1YRDzss,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
564,Japanese 1,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course is the first level of a three-year sequence course of Japanese culture and language. Students will practice the communicative skills of listening and speaking. They will also learn hiragana; a set of Japanese phonetic symbols. In addition; they will do a limited amount of reading and writing and also explore Japanese culture; customs; foods; etc.,www.youtube.com/embed/auTOuQXNR4Y,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
566,Japanese 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Japanese 1,This course is for the students who finished Japanese 1 or the equivalent. The students will practice to further develop their language abilities in listening/speaking and reading/writing with a wide variety of activities. They will master katakana in addition to hiragana; and some kanji will be introduced throughout the entire course. Japanese culture will be introduced and discussed as well. ,www.youtube.com/embed/PFkIN8A-bzo,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
568,Japanese 3,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Japanese 2,This course is for the students who finished Japanese 2 or the equivalent. Students will practice to develop their ability in the utilization of sentence patterns with which they are already familiar. Formal and informal speech styles will be introduced. They will also develop their reading and writing skills using a variety of authentic materials; and Japanese culture will be discussed as well. Students will learn the most frequently used kanji. ,www.youtube.com/embed/Z3VMhOR7fJk,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
569,Chinese 1,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course is designed for students who would like an introduction to the Chinese language and culture. Students will practice listening and speaking; and they will also learn most common used characters so that they can begin to read and write   about simple topics about daily life. They will also learn Pinyin; which is Chinese phonetic system to help typing and using dictionary. And Chinese culture will be introduced; like traditional festivals and Chinese history etc.,www.youtube.com/embed/ydxqrvzstQw,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
571,Chinese 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Chinese 1,This course is a continuation of Chinese 1. It will further develop the four language skills of listening; speaking; reading; and writing.  Students will learn more vocabulary and grammar than Chinese 1; they will be able to read longer passages and write more Chinese characters.  More culture topics will be introduced and students can discuss some culture difference between China and the US.,www.youtube.com/embed/keqaj84Oucc,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
572,Chinese 3,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Chinese 2,This course is for the students who have finished Chinese 2 or the equivalent. Students will learn and practice more speaking and listening.  They will be able to speak longer sentences using more difficult grammar and write longer essay than Chinese 2.  Reading and writing characters will be main contents as well.  Students will be able to read and write special type of article like news and E-mail.  Cultural aspects of China will also be emphasized.  Students will be able to discuss some hot issues in China and express their opinions.,www.youtube.com/embed/AqKr_TVYuxM,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
573,Chinese 4,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Chinese 3,This course is designed for the students who have finished Chinese 3 or the equivalent. This course will continue to develop their Chinese language proficiency skills with strong emphasis on listening and speaking. Reading and writing characters as well as learning more about the cultural aspects of China will be emphasized.,www.youtube.com/embed/8fZ_ALYRJyM,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
574,IB Chinese AB INITIO,Electives,12,Year,10,1,,IB Diploma Enrollment,This course is the first year of an accelerated two-year Mandarin Chinese course that focuses on the language and culture of China. Students will practice and learn speaking and writing skills appropriate to the IB ab initio course requirements. This course is available only to IB Diploma students who are new to the district and who do not have the prerequisite skills and necessary course requirements to enroll in IB French 4; IB German 4; or IB Spanish 4. No IB Certificates are awarded as this subject is only available to candidates seeking the full IB Diploma. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense.,www.youtube.com/embed/2HxN2VEeTa4,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
576,International Studies I (F),Electives,,Fall,10,1,,None,International Studies I and International Studies II; independent one-semester courses; are interdisciplinary courses open to students in grades 9-12. These courses look at international studies from the perspective of culture and language; teaching students skills that they need in order to cooperate; to compete; and to succeed in the today’s multicultural and multilingual world economy. Students will learn through discussions; visual media; games; simulations; speakers; and field site visits. These courses will be helpful to students interested in culture; business; art; current events; technology/media; and the exploration of future careers. International Studies I will focus on global awareness; the concept of culture; local diversity; and cultural skills needed for international understanding. International Studies II will begin with a review of first-semester cross-cultural skills and then continue with new topics such as global challenges; international marketing; the status of women; and international media. Mini-projects based on individual interests will round out both courses.It is recommended that students completing International Studies I take International Studies II in the spring semester of any year. Students with aspiring global aspirations/interests can also choose Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (spring) and/or the 21st Century Global Affairs (fall) from the Social Studies Department as a follow-up to either International Studies course.,www.youtube.com/embed/J6CGwR60Vxo,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
577,International Studies II (S),Electives,,Spring,10,1,,None,International Studies I and International Studies II; independent one-semester courses; are interdisciplinary courses open to students in grades 9-12. These courses look at international studies from the perspective of culture and language; teaching students skills that they need in order to cooperate; to compete; and to succeed in the today’s multicultural and multilingual world economy. Students will learn through discussions; visual media; games; simulations; speakers; and field site visits. These courses will be helpful to students interested in culture; business; art; current events; technology/media; and the exploration of future careers. International Studies I will focus on global awareness; the concept of culture; local diversity; and cultural skills needed for international understanding. International Studies II will begin with a review of first-semester cross-cultural skills and then continue with new topics such as global challenges; international marketing; the status of women; and international media. Mini-projects based on individual interests will round out both courses.It is recommended that students completing International Studies I take International Studies II in the spring semester of any year. Students with aspiring global aspirations/interests can also choose Asian and Middle Eastern Studies (spring) and/or the 21st Century Global Affairs (fall) from the Social Studies Department as a follow-up to either International Studies course.,http://youtu.be/snLFuNEKm2U,,,,,X,,,,X,,,X,X,,,
700,Introduction to Culinary Skills 1,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,Introduction to Culinary Skills; this a one semester course for freshmen; sophomores; juniors; and seniors who are interested in becoming self-sufficient in the kitchen. This course is designed to be a self-paced cooking course; where students are given the opportunity to learn fundamental culinary skills; this includes measuring; safety and sanitation; grains; fruits; vegetables; and meats.  After completing the required information; students will be given freedom to choose topics they would like to study for the remainder of the semester.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BJdXMj1KycM,,,,,,,,, ,,, , ,,,X
702,Introduction to Culinary Skills 2,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,Introduction to Culinary Skills 1,Introduction to Culinary Skills 2 is a one semester course that builds on the skills learned in Introduction to Culinary Skills 1.  Students will choose all content to explore during the semester.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=492qOBMVJUY,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,X
703,Global Foods,Electives,10;11;12,Fall,10,1,,Introduction to Culinary Skills 1,Global Foods explores the connections between what we eat and the culture around us.  In this course; students will explore our local cuisine in the United States as well as common cuisine around the world.  We will examine culinary; geographical; and cultural traditions of the United States and approximately 20 other countries throughout the world.,www.youtube.com/embed/jF3urWCRi74,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,X
704,Personal Nutrition,Electives,10;11;12,Semester,10,1,,Introduction to Culinary Skills 1,This course is designed to prepare students to become self-sufficient in the kitchen in all aspects from planning; preparation; and nutrition.  Food; nutrition; and wellness continually change to reflect the realities of today’s world.  Teens need to find time for healthy meals in a tightly scheduled day; as they sort through the ever-expanding options in the supermarket; at the fast food counter; and on the internet. This class will teach students how to make healthy and informed food related decisions that contribute to wellness over their lifetime.  The first half of the course is dedicated to learning the fundamentals of nutrition. The second half of the semester connects the culinary concepts with nutrition/meal management in preparing wholesome; nutrient-rich recipes.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
705,Child Care and Development 1 (Nursery School Experience),Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Act 34 and Act 151 Clearances,This course involves the practical application of child development in a specially designed nursery school for three- and four-year-old children from our community. Students plan and teach lessons; lead craft projects and games; and create bulletin boards in the preschool lab as well as guide the behavior and observe the development of children. This course is an excellent introduction to teaching or for students planning careers working with children. Enrolled students must complete the Act 34 Pennsylvania Criminal History Check and the Act 151 Pennsylvania Child Abuse History Check.  There is no cost for these required clearances.  ,http://www.uscsd.k12.pa.us/cms/lib02/PA01000033/Centricity/Domain/1/Clearance%20Info%20Form%20Volunteers%207.30.15.FINAL.pdf.,,,,,,,,,,x,,,,,,
706,Child Care and Development 2 (Nursery School Experience),Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,,Act 34 and Act 151 Clearances; Child Care and Development 1 or Teacher Recommendation,This class provides a complete hands-on experience for students by working with and teaching three- and four-year-olds each day in our classroom nursery school. This class provides a valuable experience for students interested in a career involving children such as teaching; social work; child care; nursing; or psychology; as well as for those who just enjoy children. Students travel to district elementary schools to observe and participate with students. Enrolled students must complete the Act 34 Pennsylvania Criminal History Check and the Act 151 Pennsylvania Child Abuse History Check. There is no cost for these required clearances.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksBMLxRSjNk,,,,,,,,,,x,,,,,,
707,Child Growth and Development ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,"This one semester course encourages an understanding of all aspects of children’s physical; intellectual; emotional; social; and moral development. Growth & Development will be followed from the prenatal period through school age. Students will observe children of various ages to better understand growth and development. In addition to concepts of child development; this course will teach skills to prepare students for care-giving and future parenting. This course also includes the ""Baby Think It Over"" doll simulator whereby students will simulate a care-giving experience outside the classroom.",http://www.youtube.com/embed/dquv-JFUpVU,,,,,,,,,,x,,,,,,
709,Interior Design ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,This course is designed to expose the student to the basic principles needed to furnish a home. Color; furniture styles; fabrics and textiles; as well as room arrangements will help the students to understand their own taste as well as that of others. The actual projects in color coordinating and layout will make this a practical; workable chance for deeper understanding of the possibilities in this as a career opportunity. This course will provide a co-educational way to plan and carry out projects of furnishing a room or planning home decorating units.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
711,Fashion Design and Construction,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,This is a one semester course for freshmen; sophomores; juniors; and seniors interested in Fashion Design and Construction. This course is designed for students who have interests in the fields of design apparel; textiles; and clothing construction. Individual projects using design principles will be used as vehicles to further develop the students’ skills. Experiences may include principles of clothing construction; home decorating; and other entrepreneurial opportunities. Students completing this course will have an introduction to the field of Fashion Merchandising and Design.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
715,Practical Living ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,Have you ever wondered what it’s like to live on your own? How much money will I need to support myself in my chosen lifestyle? Wait no longer; the answers can be found in this hands-on activity-based; one-semester course designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to make decisions as they leave high school and assume independent living responsibilities. Choose a career; develop job interview skills; set up a budget; find a place to live; buy or lease a car; understand credit; improve consumer skills and learn to communicate and develop social skills.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvPtPwo5oFY,,,,,,,,,,x,,,,,,
722,Introduction to Engineering,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course provides the opportunity for students to gain experience in technical sketching; Computer Aided Design; and Solid Modeling Design while learning to develop solutions to real-world problems.  Students will learn to use 3D printers; laser engravers; cnc machines as well as other traditional tools and machines to develop solutions to assigned open-ended problems. They will learn to interpret and develop detailed drawings and apply the engineering design process. Students will work individually and in teams during the course to develop solutions to student and teacher generated design problems.  Careers related to engineering will be explored and discussed.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gl__TA67cTQ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
723,Advanced Engineering,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Intro to Engineering,This course is intended for students who have an interest in pursuing engineering or related fields in college. The major focus of this class will be using the Engineering Design Process to design; build; test; and analyze solutions to engineering problems. These problems will be real-world problems generated by the students. Students will use the skills they developed in the Introduction to Engineering course to find solutions as well as communicate the solutions through detailed drawings and models. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8EFvgDn8j1k,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
724,Introduction to Architecture,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,This course provides the opportunity for students to design and develop a residential home from rough sketches to a detailed scaled model. They will discuss the history of architecture as well as the current trends. Students will learn about and develop a complete set of plans using 3-Dimensional Solid Modeling software; laser engravers and traditional lab equipment. 3D Printers and CNC machines will be used as needed to develop models and depict architectural features; and/or structures. Careers related to architecture will be explored and discussed.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNq72Eq9etc,,,,,,X,X,,X,,,,,,,
725,Advanced Architecture,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Intro to Architecture,This course is designed for students who have an interest in pursuing architecture or a related field in college. Students will work to develop a commercial structure. They will act as architects to design a structure that meets strict specifications including lot size and topography; financial limitations; client preferences; etc. Students will learn about and develop a complete set of plans using 3-Dimensional Solid Modeling software; laser engravers and traditional lab equipment. 3D Printers and CNC machines will be used as needed to develop models and depict architectural features; and/or structures. c. In addition; students will learn about and begin the development of an architecture portfolio.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSL5Ft4dQMA,,,,,,X,X,,X,,,,,,,
726,Independent Study - Design and Development,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,,Advanced Architecture; Advanced Engineering and Advanced Technology Design and Development,This course gives students an opportunity to develop specialized knowledge and skills in architecture or engineering. Students will research an area of particular interest to them and work with the teachers' guidance towards developing new knowledge and interesting projects. Because this course does not typically fall into a slotted time during the schedule; excellent time management skills will be required.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqUD_-MGLUc,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
729,Technology Design and Development ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,Using relevant hands-on activities; students will develop an understanding and appreciation of how transportation; construction; and communication systems affect our lives; society; and the world. Students will construct working models that demonstrate the principles of transportation; the principles of construction; and principles of communication. Students will discuss the impacts and appropriate use of technology. In addition; students will explore alternative power and energy systems; biotechnology; and problem solving methods. They will be encouraged to problem solve and be creative in their design and thought process. ,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqUD_-MGLUc,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
731,Advanced Technology Design and Development ,Electives,10;11;12,Semester,10,1,,Technology Design & Development,This course offers an advanced study of technological systems in which the students will research and develop a technological system that has been selected by the student and approved by the teacher. The major emphasis of the course will be the development of a working prototype that demonstrates the principles of transportation; construction or communication. The methods of problem solving and engineering design processes will be used extensively in this course. This is an excellent class for self-directed students interested in pursuing engineering as a career. ,,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
733,Introduction to Robotics ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,Y,None,This course is intended for students interested in the exciting fields of robotics and engineering. The primary focus of this class is to introduce students to the hardware and software systems of a typical robot. During the course; students will construct robots; program their robots to perform various tasks; and analyze the results of their work. The engineering design process will be used extensively. Careers related to robotics and engineering will be explored.,www.youtube.com/embed/plH25Vz9sA0,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
734,HN Steam Innovation and Consulting,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Strong Work Ethic,Students enrolled in the Upper St. Clair STEAM Innovation and Consulting course work alongside students enrolled in sister courses at neighboring school districts to solve real world problems for local industry partners.  Student teams research; design; and develop implementable solutions to be presented for review to industry executives in a formal presentation.  This is an honors level course that requires intrinsic motivation and strong problem solving ambitions.  The specific nature of the problems are unknown; but they range from marketing; finance; logistics; product design and production practices.  Students should anticipate field trips for manufacturing tours; collaborative meetings; and formal presentations.  ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=XT75For6vGk#t=6,,,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,
735,Home Repair and Maintenance,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,This course provides the opportunity for students to learn basic hands-on DIY skills that are practical for future homeowners. Students will learn and apply skills to fix; repair; replace; and install basic home ownership necessities. Students will receive instruction on performing everyday repairs throughout the home such as patching drywall; fixing a leaking faucet; replacing a door knob; and resetting a tripped breaker. Repair procedures will be practiced in a lab setting as well as hand and power tool safety. The material covered in this class includes but is not limited to: basic plumbing; paint; basic electrical; drywall; and outdoor maintenance.,,,,,,,X,,,,,,,,,,
737,Partners in Shop@USC,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,None,This course is designed for 10; 11; or 12th grade students who have a strong desire to partner with students who have special needs. SHOP@USC or... Showing How Opportunity Pays @ USC is a pioneering; student-run business; which enables students to design and manufacture products to be marketed and sold within the school community.  Special education students; the primary producers of these products; are assisted by general education curriculum students; who are eager to assist in the planning and creation of these items.  In this unique environment; benefits are numerous for all participants.  Financial literacy and entrepreneurial thinking are practiced through developing business plans that include pricing; marketing; sales; and inventory.  Technical and manufacturing skills are learned while using a number of machines ranging from vinyl cutters and direct to garment presses to wide-format printers.  Interpersonal skills are honed through consistent peer-peer collaboration; and empathy; compassion; service leadership; and friendship are on center stage throughout the entire process. So; while STEAM learning is the academic goal; the realized benefits extend far beyond the academics; and also beyond the high-quality tangible products that are produced for sale.  The greatest benefits are the intangible gains in areas such as confidence; contribution; and community that SHOP@USC is providing for all involved.  These benefits will last these students for a life-time; and are what make SHOP@USC much more than a high-quality STEAM program.  SHOP@USC is a positive; life-changing experience.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
776F,Introduction to 2D Art (F),Electives,,Fall,10,1,,None,This course is open to all levels; for students who have no experience in 2D art.  In this course; students will be introduced to a variety of media such as: pencil; ink; charcoal; watercolor; oil pastels; acrylics and printmaking. Students will do exercises to learn techniques and then will be able to create an independent project of their own design using the specific media. ,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
776S,Introduction to 2D Art (S),Electives,,Spring,10,1,,None,This course is open to all levels; for students who have no experience in 2D art.  In this course; students will be introduced to a variety of media such as: pencil; ink; charcoal; watercolor; oil pastels; acrylics and printmaking. Students will do exercises to learn techniques and then will be able to create an independent project of their own design using the specific media. ,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
778F,2D Studio Art (F),Electives,,Fall,10,1,,Introduction to 2D Art,Students will learn more advanced techniques and skills using the media introduced in Introductory 2D Art. Specific exercises to learn techniques will be given with the opportunity for students to explore and create individualized projects of their own design. ,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
778S,2D Studio Art (F),Electives,,Spring,10,1,,Introduction to 2D Art,Students will learn more advanced techniques and skills using the media introduced in Introductory 2D Art. Specific exercises to learn techniques will be given with the opportunity for students to explore and create individualized projects of their own design. ,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
779,IB Visual Arts HL-11,Electives,11,Year,10,1,Y,None,For this two-year course; it would be beneficial to have previously taken a studio art course. It is strongly recommended for students going on to study art in college. The course has three assessment tasks: The Comparative Study; the Process Portfolio and the Exhibition.  The first year of the higher course and the one year standard level course will be spent working on the Comparative Study (20% of grade) and the Process Portfolio (40% of grade). For the Comparative Study; students analyze and compare different artworks by different artists. This independent critical and contextual investigation explores artworks; objects and artifacts from differing cultural contexts over 10-15 slides of a Google presentation. Students will also create a work of art inspired by this study. For the Process Portfolio; students will submit carefully selected materials; which evidence their experimentation; exploration; manipulation and refinement of a variety of visual arts activities during the two-year course. Students will create a 15-25 page Google presentation that shows evidence of experimentation in three different art forms. Students will also create studio work of their own design independently during this year. The second year will be spent preparing for the Exhibition (40% of grade). Students will create and submit for assessment a selection of resolved artworks from their exhibition. The selected pieces should show evidence of their technical accomplishment during the visual arts course and an understanding of the use of materials; ideas and practices appropriate to visual communication. Students are required to exhibit 8–11 pieces with exhibition text for each. A curatorial rationale (700 words maximum) is also required for the exhibit. While not required; it is highly recommended that students taking IB Visual Arts have previous studio arts class experience at the high school level. Please be advised there is an external assessment fee for this course,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
780,IB Visual Arts HL-12,Electives,12,Year,10,1,Y,IB Visual Arts HL-11,For this two-year course; it would be beneficial to have previously taken a studio art course. It is strongly recommended for students going on to study art in college. The course has three assessment tasks: The Comparative Study; the Process Portfolio and the Exhibition.  The first year of the higher course and the one year standard level course will be spent working on the Comparative Study (20% of grade) and the Process Portfolio (40% of grade). For the Comparative Study; students analyze and compare different artworks by different artists. This independent critical and contextual investigation explores artworks; objects and artifacts from differing cultural contexts over 10-15 slides of a Google presentation. Students will also create a work of art inspired by this study. For the Process Portfolio; students will submit carefully selected materials; which evidence their experimentation; exploration; manipulation and refinement of a variety of visual arts activities during the two-year course. Students will create a 15-25 page Google presentation that shows evidence of experimentation in three different art forms. Students will also create studio work of their own design independently during this year. The second year will be spent preparing for the Exhibition (40% of grade). Students will create and submit for assessment a selection of resolved artworks from their exhibition. The selected pieces should show evidence of their technical accomplishment during the visual arts course and an understanding of the use of materials; ideas and practices appropriate to visual communication. Students are required to exhibit 8–11 pieces with exhibition text for each. A curatorial rationale (700 words maximum) is also required for the exhibit. While not required; it is highly recommended that students taking IB Visual Arts have previous studio arts class experience at the high school level. Please be advised there is an external assessment fee for this course,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
781,IB Visual Arts SL-12,Electives,12,Semester,10,1,Y,None,For this two-year course; it would be beneficial to have previously taken a studio art course. It is strongly recommended for students going on to study art in college. The course has three assessment tasks: The Comparative Study; the Process Portfolio and the Exhibition.  The first year of the higher course and the one year standard level course will be spent working on the Comparative Study (20% of grade) and the Process Portfolio (40% of grade). For the Comparative Study; students analyze and compare different artworks by different artists. This independent critical and contextual investigation explores artworks; objects and artifacts from differing cultural contexts over 10-15 slides of a Google presentation. Students will also create a work of art inspired by this study. For the Process Portfolio; students will submit carefully selected materials; which evidence their experimentation; exploration; manipulation and refinement of a variety of visual arts activities during the two-year course. Students will create a 15-25 page Google presentation that shows evidence of experimentation in three different art forms. Students will also create studio work of their own design independently during this year. The second year will be spent preparing for the Exhibition (40% of grade). Students will create and submit for assessment a selection of resolved artworks from their exhibition. The selected pieces should show evidence of their technical accomplishment during the visual arts course and an understanding of the use of materials; ideas and practices appropriate to visual communication. Students are required to exhibit 8–11 pieces with exhibition text for each. A curatorial rationale (700 words maximum) is also required for the exhibit. While not required; it is highly recommended that students taking IB Visual Arts have previous studio arts class experience at the high school level. Please be advised there is an external assessment fee for this course,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
782,Introduction to Ceramics,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,Introduction to Ceramics is intended for freshmen; sophomores; juniors; and seniors who have little to no experience with clay. During this course; you will learn the basics of hand building and wheel throwing. There will be a strong focus on craftsmanship and individual expression. You will have the opportunity to create functional and non-functional ceramic art. Throughout this course; students will discover unconventional ways to add texture and designs to your work. Specific projects will be assigned in order to gain knowledge and skills that are essential in clay construction. Upon completion of Introduction to Ceramics; you will have an understanding of the clay process from creating; decorating and glazing.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
784,Introduction to Sculpture,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,Introduction to Sculpture is intended for freshmen; sophomores; juniors; and seniors who have an interest in sculptural art.  You will learn and apply the elements of art and the principles of design to create three-dimensional art.  During this course; metal; plaster; clay; fabric and recycled materials will be used to make your ideas come to life.  Projects will vary as much as the materials.  Each project will require research; sketching; critiques and reflection.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
786F,3D Studio Art (F),Electives,,Fall,10,1,,Introduction to Ceramics or Introduction to Sculpture,Three-Dimensional Studio Art is intended for individuals that have previously taken Introductory Sculpture or Introductory Ceramics.  You will apply your knowledge of the elements of art and the principles of design.  There will be an emphasis on craftsmanship and individual expression.  This course will allow you to begin a body of work and focus on your unique style.  Each project will require research; critiques and reflection. You will be expected to be self-motivated and expand your use of materials to construct aesthetically pleasing artwork,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
786S,3D Studio Art (S),Electives,,Spring,10,1,,Introduction to Ceramics or Introduction to Sculpture,Three-Dimensional Studio Art is intended for individuals that have previously taken Introductory Sculpture or Introductory Ceramics.  You will apply your knowledge of the elements of art and the principles of design.  There will be an emphasis on craftsmanship and individual expression.  This course will allow you to begin a body of work and focus on your unique style.  Each project will require research; critiques and reflection. You will be expected to be self-motivated and expand your use of materials to construct aesthetically pleasing artwork,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
788,Digital Art 1 ,Electives,,Fall,10,1,,None,Digital Arts 1 is intended for freshmen; sophomores; juniors; and seniors who have an interest in computers and photography.  During this course you will learn Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.  You will have the opportunity to design graphic images as well as alter photographs.  Throughout this course; students will learn a variety of techniques and computer skills.  Specific projects will be assigned in order to gain knowledge of the tools available in Adobe programs that are essential to creating successful art.  Upon completion of Digital Arts 1 you will have a strong understanding of Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
790,Digital Arts 2,Electives,,Spring,10,1,,Digital Arts 1,Digital Arts 2 is intended for individuals that have previously taken Digital Arts 1.  During this course you will apply your understanding of design programs to turn your digital art into three-dimensional forms.  You will incorporate 3D printing; laser cutting; and fabrication to bring your computer designs to life. Each project will require research; critiques and reflection.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
802,Wind Ensemble,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Recommendation of the Director and Audition Only,Wind Ensemble is composed of the top 40-60 woodwind; brass; and percussion instrumentalists in grades 10-12. This course is for advanced musicians. Students must audition in order to be enrolled in Wind Ensemble.,www.youtube.com/embed/Waq5tc4ONEo,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
803,Symphonic Band,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Moderate Competency on a Band Instrument,Symphonic Band is composed of 25-40 intermediate woodwind; brass; and percussion players. This course is for intermediate level musicians.,www.youtube.com/embed/xscpckGCxPA,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
804,Jazz Ensemble 1,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Recommendation of the Director and Audition Only,Jazz Ensemble is the top jazz group at the high school. Students will be selected through audition only. Grades 9-12 meet 3-5 days per week. Students must participate in another instrumental ensemble (Marching Band; Symphonic Band; or Wind Ensemble) in order to participate in jazz ensemble unless pre-approved by the Band Director.,www.youtube.com/embed/9jq_qvjtKjM,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
805,Jazz Ensemble 2,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Minimum Competency on a Band Instrument,Open to any student interested in jazz music grade levels 9-12. Students must be able to read music confidently. Students meet 3-5 days per week. Students must participate in another instrumental ensemble (Marching Band; Symphonic Band; or Wind Ensemble) in order to participate in jazz ensemble unless pre-approved by the Band Director.,www.youtube.com/embed/uyWU9xphmBw,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
807,Orchestra,Electives,,Year,10,1,,Minimum Competency on an Orchestral (string) Instrument,Orchestra should be considered by any student who is currently or has previously studied an orchestral instrument. Only string players or pianists may enroll for 5 days per week. The major objectives of the course are to provide students the opportunity to develop individual instrumental skills through small (chamber or section) and large (full and string orchestra) ensemble participation. ,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XxRM8n6En54,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
808,Basic Guitar Technique and Performance,Electives,,Year,6,1,,None,Basic Guitar Technique provides the high school level students the opportunity to begin to study proper guitar technique and to build on the concepts and skill taught in General Music class at the Middle School level.  The intent of this class is to provide a hands-on approach to music theory and music history. The class will meet three days each week. Some school instruments may be available; but students should expect to provide their own guitar if possible.,www.youtube.com/embed/Ng6KSWPDUOE,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
809,Beginning Instrumental Studies,Electives,,Year,Varied,1,,None,Beginning Instrumental Studies provides the high school level student the opportunity to learn to play a woodwind; brass; percussion; or string instrument found in the band and/or orchestra as an independent study.  Some school-owned instruments may be available for beginning students but students should expect to provide their own instruments. Scheduling of students is very flexible. ,www.youtube.com/embed/G91iY8jLgjE,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
811,Music Theory & Technology,Electives,,Year,10,1,,General Music Knowledge,The Music Theory and Technology program was developed as a fundamentals of music course intended for students who are giving serious consideration to having a major or minor in music in college. The course should develop a student’s ability to recognize; understand; describe; and analyze the basic materials and processes of music that are heard or presented in a score. The course emphasizes integrated approaches to the student’s development of aural; sight-singing; written; compositional; and analytical skills through listening; performance; written; creative; and analytical exercises.  In addition; students will learn about important developments in Music Technology; including music notation programs and digital production.,www.youtube.com/embed/KB2eTgECRtc,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
812,Music Technology and Digital Production,Electives,,Year,6,1,,General Music Knowledge and Moderate Ability on a Musical Instrument,The Music Technology and Digital Production course introduces students to many forms of music technology; including music notation software and music production software and methodology.  The program will be project based and largely student driven; with students creating and producing a finished; polished music project.  Prior musical knowledge is a must.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
813,AP Music Theory,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Prior Approval and Recommendation of the Music Staff,Advanced Placement (AP) Music Theory is designed to provide students with a learning experience equivalent to that of an introductory college course in music theory. The course should develop a student’s ability to recognize; understand; describe; and analyze the basic materials and processes of music that are heard or presented in a score. The course emphasizes integrated approaches to the student’s development of aural; sight-singing; written; compositional; and analytical skills through listening; performance; written; creative; and analytical exercises.,www.youtube.com/embed/UmxHH4QaK3Y,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
814,Panther Marching Band; Majorettes; Pantherettees; and Color Guard,Electives,,Fall,After School,1,,None,The “Panther” Marching Band membership is drawn from the entire high school student body for players; Majorettes; Pantherettes; Color Guard; and Band Managers.  Auditions for Auxiliary Units (Majorettes; Pantherettes; Color Guard) are held each spring shortly after the Music Department trip. The Marching Band meets during the first nine weeks of school and has a three-week summer training program in August prior to the beginning of the school year. The Marching Band rehearses in September; October; and November; Tuesday and Thursday from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. Every spring the “Panther” Marching Band takes a trip to a major festival held in Orlando; Myrtle Beach; Toronto; Virginia Beach/Williamsburg; or other east coast destinations. The “Panther” Marching Band includes our playing membership; Majorettes; Pantherettes; Color Guard; and Band Managers.,www.youtube.com/embed/sD7bPc7Kyhc,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
815,String Ensemble,Electives,,Year,After School,1,,Enrollment in Orchestra Auditions,The String Ensemble is an extra-curricular small Orchestra that specializes in classical chamber music.  Only students who are enrolled in Orchestra my audition for this ensemble.  The String Ensemble rehearses one evening per week from 7:00-8:30 pm; and after school or evenings at the director’s discretion.  Members of this high level ensemble are responsible for a greater extent of preparation prior to and following rehearsals.,,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
820,Men's Ensemble,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,Men’s Ensemble is an elective course open to male students in grades 9-12. The Men’s Ensemble is one of four performing groups and is designed to accommodate new students entering the Upper St. Clair Choral Department as well as upperclassmen who enjoy the camaraderie of singing in a male choir. Members study basic singing techniques and the basic elements of music. The music is of a varied nature including classic pieces; barbershop; and popular styles of music. All coursework is completed in class during rehearsal; except for the occasional evening rehearsals (if necessary); and a minimum of three annual concerts; which are mandatory. The Men’s Ensemble always provides an entertaining addition to USC’s Choral Concerts; and occasionally performs in the community on field trips. Students receive regular grades as in academic subjects. Students in this ensemble are required to pay a Wardrobe Fee of $30.  No audition is necessary.,www.youtube.com/embed/bGtK7j_5dbo,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
821,Women's Chorus,Electives,9,Year,10,1,,None,Women’s Chorus is an elective course open to female students in Grade 9 who are interested in participating in a performing choral group. Members study basic singing techniques and the basic elements of music. The music is of a varied nature including sacred; secular; Broadway; and popular songs. All coursework is completed in class during rehearsal; except for the occasional evening rehearsals (if necessary); and a minimum of three annual concerts; which are mandatory. The Women's Chorus occasionally takes performance field trips. Students receive grades as in academic subjects. No audition is necessary. Students in this ensemble are required to purchase a shirt at the cost of $15.00 that will serve as concert attire.,www.youtube.com/embed/EmeufbamPJE,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
822,Clarion Choir,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,None,Clarion Choir is open to all female students in grades 10-12 who are interested in participating in a performing choral group. Members study singing techniques and intermediate elements of music. The music is of a varied nature including sacred; secular; Broadway; and popular songs. All coursework is completed in class during rehearsal; except for the occasional evening rehearsals (if necessary); and a minimum of three annual concerts; which are mandatory. The Clarion Choir performs challenging music. Occasional performance field trips are taken. Students receive regular grades as in academic subjects. No audition is necessary. Students in this ensemble are required to purchase a shirt at the cost of $15.00 that will serve as concert attire.,www.youtube.com/embed/cPVbL0xlvaQ,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
823,Pantheon Choir,Electives,10;11;12,Year,10,1,,Director Recommendation Through an Audition; Participation in a Choral Group the Preceding Year,The Pantheon Choir is a mixed choir of female students from grades 11-12 and male students in grades 10-12. Students must audition for this ensemble. Auditions will be held the week before course selection sheets are due. As part of the course; members study vocal techniques and advanced elements of music at a higher level than the other performing groups. The Pantheon Choir has performed with the Pittsburgh Symphony and The River City Brass Band. A favorite tradition is the performance in December on the steps of the Allegheny County Courthouse. The Chanteclairs are selected from the Pantheon Choir. All coursework is completed during class except for the occasional evening rehearsals (if necessary); and a minimum of three annual concerts; which are mandatory. Students receive regular grades as in academic subjects. Students in this ensemble are required to pay a Wardrobe Fee of $30.00.                                                        ,www.youtube.com/embed/rUZud8SPaEg,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
824,Chanteclairs,Electives,11;12,Year,After School,1,,Enrollment in Pantheon Choir,The Chanteclairs are an extra-curricular choir that specializes in a cappella music. Only students who are enrolled in Pantheon Choir may audition for this ensemble and students must continue as members of Pantheon Choir. Students in other choirs may also be invited by the director to audition. Chanteclairs rehearse on Tuesdays from 2:30 - 4:00 p.m.; and after school or evenings at the director’s discretion.,www.youtube.com/embed/F4Kt0AtnCM8,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
850,Wellness Education 9 (F/S),Wellness Ed,9,Year,8,1,,None,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
851,MYP Wellness Education 9 (F/S),Wellness Ed,9,Year,8,1,,MYP Enrollment,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
852,Wellness Education 10 (F/S),Wellness Ed,10,Year,4,0.5,,None,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
853,Wellness Education 10: Dance Option(F/S),Wellness Ed,10,Year,4,0.5,,None,Dance is a Wellness Education option for grades 10 and 11. Dance provides students the opportunity to learn various dance forms such as ballet; jazz; and hip-hop during the physical activity portion of Wellness. Students will choreograph a performance for all of the various dance forms.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
854,MYP Wellness Education 10 (F/S),Wellness Ed,10,Year,4,0.5,,MYP Enrollment,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
855F,Wellness Education 11 (F),Wellness Ed,11,Fall,4,0.5,,None,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
855S,Wellness Education 11 (S),Wellness Ed,11,Spring,4,0.5,,None,Wellness Education is a requirement for all students in grades 9; 10; and 11. Wellness Education provides students with the knowledge and skills that will enable them to achieve and maintain a physically active and healthy lifestyle. Students will learn the importance of making healthy choices throughout their lives and that all choices have consequences; both short and long term.  All students will build on their understanding of the principles of exercise in grades 9-11; with a final project of creating their own fitness plan in grade 11. Students will participate in a variety of lifetime activities to promote stress management and relaxation. They will take part in team sports that foster team building strategies and good sportsmanship. In addition; safety measures and many crucial life lessons will also be learned. These lessons include the following: Basic water safety and lifesaving skills; CPR/AED certification; Emergency first aid training and emergency procedures; Drug; Alcohol; and Tobacco Prevention Healthy Relationships/Violence Prevention.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
856F,Wellness Education 11: Dance Option (F),Wellness Ed,,Fall,4,0.5,,None,Dance is a Wellness Education option for grades 10 and 11. Dance provides students the opportunity to learn various dance forms such as ballet; jazz; and hip-hop during the physical activity portion of Wellness. Students will choreograph a performance for all of the various dance forms.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
856S,Wellness Education 11: Dance Option (S),Wellness Ed,,Spring,4,0.5,,None,Dance is a Wellness Education option for grades 10 and 11. Dance provides students the opportunity to learn various dance forms such as ballet; jazz; and hip-hop during the physical activity portion of Wellness. Students will choreograph a performance for all of the various dance forms.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
857,Personal Wellness,Wellness Ed,11,Spring,4 hours/week,0.5,,None,Open to 11th grade students; Personal Wellness is a unique one semester long Physical Education offering.  This course will be facilitated through an online environment that is led by an Upper St. Clair teacher with the goal being to enhance each student’s personal wellness through increasing students’ awareness of strategies for improving their personal wellness.  In addition to completing written assignments; discussions; and quizzes; students will be required to complete weekly physical fitness activities for this course. Students will be required to complete a minimum of four hours per week of physical fitness activities over at least four different days each week; including cardiovascular endurance; resistance training; and flexibility. These guidelines are designed to help students work toward the recommended 60 minutes or more of physical activity each day as set by the American Heart Association; the Center for Disease Control and Prevention; and the American Academy of Pediatrics.  Due to the online nature of this course; students must demonstrate intrinsic motivation; self-discipline; and integrity; both to the course and to their own personal wellness. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
861F,Partners in PE (F),Wellness Ed,10;11;12,Fall,4,0.5,,None,In this program Peer Tutors will be paired with students with special needs in a specially designed physical education class. This program will give regular education students the opportunities for hands on experiences in the teaching process. They will learn more about individual learning styles and knowledge of various disabilities. Expectations for Peer Tutors include assisting student athletes with special needs as well as the PE teachers; blogging reflections about their experiences on Canvas; and following special education teachers’ support and tips about working with their special education partner. Regular education students will also be given a final exam testing their knowledge on topics discussed in class; including disabilities; sport adaptations; and the athletes. Peer Tutors will also be responsible for helping to plan and conduct some extra-curricular (outside of the school day) opportunities for their athletes with special needs.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
861S,Partners in PE (S),Wellness Ed,10;11;12,Spring,4,0.5,,None,In this program Peer Tutors will be paired with students with special needs in a specially designed physical education class. This program will give regular education students the opportunities for hands on experiences in the teaching process. They will learn more about individual learning styles and knowledge of various disabilities. Expectations for Peer Tutors include assisting student athletes with special needs as well as the PE teachers; blogging reflections about their experiences on Canvas; and following special education teachers’ support and tips about working with their special education partner. Regular education students will also be given a final exam testing their knowledge on topics discussed in class; including disabilities; sport adaptations; and the athletes. Peer Tutors will also be responsible for helping to plan and conduct some extra-curricular (outside of the school day) opportunities for their athletes with special needs.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
900,IB TOK 11 ,Social Studies,11,Fall,10,1,Y,MYP Completion,The Theory of Knowledge course encourages critical thinking about knowledge itself; to try to help young people make sense of what they encounter. Its core content is questions like these: What counts as knowledge? How does it grow? What are its limits? Who owns knowledge?  What is the value of knowledge? What are the implications of having; or not having; knowledge?  Theory of Knowledge activities and discussions aim to help students discover and express their views on knowledge questions. The course encourages students to share ideas with others and to listen to and learn from what others think. In this process students’ thinking and their understanding of knowledge as a human construction are shaped; enriched; and deepened. Connections may be made between knowledge encountered in different subjects and distinctions between different kinds of knowledge may be clarified.  The discussion-based course is designed for highly motivated; inquisitive; self-directed students. Students will complete a written assignment the summer between Junior and Senior year.  The course is scheduled second semester junior year and first semester senior year.,www.youtube.com/embed/mM64QsbAzDw,X,,,,X,,,,X,x,,,,,,
903,IB TOK 12 ,Social Studies,12,Spring,10,1,Y,MYP Completion,The Theory of Knowledge course encourages critical thinking about knowledge itself; to try to help young people make sense of what they encounter. Its core content is questions like these: What counts as knowledge? How does it grow? What are its limits? Who owns knowledge?  What is the value of knowledge? What are the implications of having; or not having; knowledge?  Theory of Knowledge activities and discussions aim to help students discover and express their views on knowledge questions. The course encourages students to share ideas with others and to listen to and learn from what others think. In this process students’ thinking and their understanding of knowledge as a human construction are shaped; enriched; and deepened. Connections may be made between knowledge encountered in different subjects and distinctions between different kinds of knowledge may be clarified.  The discussion-based course is designed for highly motivated; inquisitive; self-directed students. Students will complete a written assignment the summer between Junior and Senior year.  The course is scheduled second semester junior year and first semester senior year.,www.youtube.com/embed/mM64QsbAzDw,X,,,,X,,,,X,X,,,,,,
935FJ,Applied Learning Strategies: Grade 9; 11,Electives,,Year,Varied,Varied,,Departmental Recommendation,This class focuses on learning strategies utilizing all content curriculums. Students who are recommended will develop better test taking strategies; note taking skills; self-advocacy skills; organizational skills; and other individualized needs.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
935SS,Applied Learning Strategies: Grade 10; 12,Electives,,Year,Varied,Varied,,Departmental Recommendation,This class focuses on learning strategies utilizing all content curriculums. Students who are recommended will develop better test taking strategies; note taking skills; self-advocacy skills; organizational skills; and other individualized needs.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
944,Introduction to Programming,Mathematics,,Semester,10,1,,None,In this course; students will learn the Python programming language as well as develop problem-solving techniques commonly used in programming. Students will utilize classic algorithms for sorting; searching; and dealing with data. This is an intro level course designed for novices. An in-depth introduction to the Python language and the computer in general will be presented. This hands-on course will enable students to write programs of varying complexity.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/QDiH31hD-VA,,,,X,,,,,X,,,,,,X,
947,Intermediate Programming,Mathematics,,Semester,10,1,,Introduction to Programming,In this course; students will continue to use the Python programming language as they learn dynamic data structures; object oriented programming; and advanced algorithms. Emphasis will be placed on working with classes and developing classes of our own. Students will also be exposed to abstract data types such as linked lists; stacks; and queues.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/WbJPhd5oCEs,,,,X,,,,,X,,,,,,X,
950,Computer Science 1 - Independent Study,Mathematics,11;12,Semester,10,1,,Completion with passing grades in Intro and Intermediate Programming and AP or IB Computer Science with Teacher Recommendation,Students who demonstrate an interest in learning more about computers – programming or application use – should enroll in the Independent Study course. Students complete projects with their progress being monitored by the teacher. These projects are student-initiated in areas of student interest. Pass/fail grading scale.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
953,AP Computer Science A,Mathematics,10;11;12,Year,10,1,Y,Introduction and Intermediate Programming,In this course; students cover the material found on the APCS test. In addition to the test material; students will also be exposed to concepts of object-oriented programming including defining classes and creating reusable program code. This hands-on course will enable students to write programs of varying complexity in the JAVA programming language.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/tIX6qXr8dm4,,,,X,,,,,X,,,,,,,
955,Personalized Pathways in Computer Science,Mathematics,11;12,Semester,Varied,1,,Completion with passing grades in Intro and Intermediate Programming and AP or IB Computer Science with Teacher Recommendation,Designed for students who have completed the entire computer science curriculum; this course provides students who wish to further their studies in computer science an opportunity to earn pass/fail credit for completing online coursework offered by various universities.  Students who desire to enroll in this course must complete the prerequisite coursework in computer science and meet with the teacher to determine an approved course or set of courses offered through an online vendor.  In addition to high school pass/fail credit; the opportunity to earn a certificate of completion from the issuing university may also be available.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
956,IB Computer Science SL,Mathematics,11;12,Year,10,1,Y,None,This course will introduce students to the field of computer science.  Topics covered include computer and network organization; system fundamentals; computational thinking and problem solving. The social and ethical implications of computer systems will be addressed as well as one topic from databases; web science; simulations or OOP programming. Students are required to develop a project and the associated documentation that solves a real-world problem of their choosing. No prior knowledge of programming is required; but previous programming experience is beneficial. Students enrolled in this course must take the IB exam at their own expense. ,https://www.youtube.com/embed/tubzgr8xF-4,,,,X,,,,,X,,,,,,,
958,Financial Literacy,Mathematics,10;11;12,Semester,4,0.5,,None,Students who enroll in this course will learn about the aspects of personal finance and how to make positive financial decisions. This course aims to help students develop appropriate money management skills both now and in the future.  The personal finance topics explored in this course include: budgeting; saving; banking; compound interest; retirement; credit cards; loans (including car loans and mortgages); the stock market; and product profitability. This course will be hybrid in nature; as learning will occur both in the classroom and through the use of online resources.,https://www.youtube.com/embed/R19fAvb2I7g,,X,X,,X,,,,,,X,, X,,,X
959,Smart Desk,Electives,,Year,Varied,1,,None,Smart desk is an independent study provided by the Upper St. Clair technology department. Students utilize their knowledge of computers to assist in fixing district technology issues. There are also many opportunities for learning experiences and independent projects.,http://youtu.be/cQDNPmHe_ns,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
965,Introduction to Video Communications ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,None,This course will give students an introductory experience in a video communications setting. The class will examine techniques used in video communication production including storyboarding; scripting; acting; and production. ,www.youtube.com/embed/ltDcNauFbaY,X,,,X,X,,,,,,,,,,,
968,Video and Media Communications 1 ,Electives,,Semester,10,1,,A or B grade in Introduction to Video Communications or Instructor’s Approval,This course will give students experience in a communication studio. The class will cover non-linear editing; graphics design and use; broadcast camera techniques; scripting; and production design. ,www.youtube.com/embed/Jmz2HfgybHU,X,,,X,X,,,,,,,,,,,
975,Multimedia Journalism 1,Electives,10;11;12,Year,Varied,1,,Successful completion of a 9th Grade English course,This workshop-based course will provide students with practical experience in the various skills involved in working in the media and communications fields; including interviewing; researching; videography; copywriting; and photography. After brief introductory training; students will work independently to complete projects in which they create authentic media packages; which may be used on various district communications outlets; such as Campus News; The Clairvoyant; The St. Clairion; and Channel 19. The class will not have a set meeting time; but students must commit to work outside the regular school day to cover news stories.,www.youtube.com/embed/GlbMlrOoBgk,X,,,,X,,,,,,,,,,,
976,Multimedia Journalism  2,Electives,11;12,Year,Varied,1,,A or B grade in Multimedia Journalism 1 or Instructor’s Approval,This workshop-based course will provide students with the opportunity to concentrate in an advanced media and communication skills area of their choosing; including news reporting; publication layout and design; video news formatting; advertising and social media; producing and directing news programs; or documentary filmmaking. Students will work independently to complete projects. The class will not have a set meeting time; but students must commit to working outside the regular school day to cover news stories and complete projects.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XhVMZSgYtXk&feature=youtu.be,X,,,,X,,,,,,,,,,,
977,Multimedia Journalism - Print Journalism,Electives,11;12,Year,Varied,1,,Successful completion of 9th and 10th Grade English,This workshop-based course will provide students with practical experience in the various skills involved in working in the print media field; including interviewing; researching; and photography.  After brief introductory training; students will work independently to complete projects in which they create authentic newspaper stories; which may be used in the school newspaper; The St Clarion.  The class will not have a set meeting time; but students must commit to work outside the regular school day to cover news stories.,http://youtu.be/B4JiGdAqHxo?hd=1,X,,,,X,,,,,,,,,,,
980,Integrated Studies: Service Learning and Social Entrepreneurship,Electives,11;12,Year,10,1,,None,Service Learning and Social Entrepreneurship integrates civic responsibility with an academic and pre-professional curriculum. Students meet real needs in the community by completing service work and connecting their learning in the classroom to the service experience. Students will improve critical thinking and problem-solving skills through analysis and understanding of complex issues; and gain important experience working with diverse members of the Pittsburgh community. Class time will be dedicated to research; discussion; and analysis of people and organizations that are service-oriented; as well as practicing principles of professionalism and reflecting upon service experiences. Students will complete 40-60 hours of service work in a combination of school field trips and in- or after- school hours over the duration of two semesters. This course emphasizes civic; professional; and personal growth; utilizing a project-based experience. This elective is open to students in grades 11 and 12.,https://youtu.be/fa58JX6lMKY,,X,,,,,,,,,X,,X,,,
983,Theater Arts/Acting,Electives,,Year,10,1,,None,Students will study various aspects of the performing arts. Students will work on monologues; scenes; voice and speech; improvisation; movement; character development; and audition preparation.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
985F,Peer Tutoring (F),Electives,,Fall,Varied,Varied,,Application Process,Peer Tutoring is an independent study.  Selected students will work one-on-one with tutees in the Resource Center and/or will be placed in a classroom to assist students who need extra support in the identified content area.   Students will be able to indicate if they would like to tutor at Fort Couch or the High School.  Students who tutor 4 mods per week will earn .5 credit and students who spend at least 8 mods per week will earn 1.0 credit.   Application Process: Interested students must obtain the recommendation of their school counselor and the classroom teacher in the content they wish to tutor.  Students must maintain an unweighted 3.0 GPA and have received an A or B in each course they plan to tutor.   Applications are available in the counseling office. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
985S,Peer Tutoring (S),Electives,,Spring,Varied,Varied,,Application Process,Peer Tutoring is an independent study.  Selected students will work one-on-one with tutees in the Resource Center and/or will be placed in a classroom to assist students who need extra support in the identified content area.   Students will be able to indicate if they would like to tutor at Fort Couch or the High School.  Students who tutor 4 mods per week will earn .5 credit and students who spend at least 8 mods per week will earn 1.0 credit.   Application Process: Interested students must obtain the recommendation of their school counselor and the classroom teacher in the content they wish to tutor.  Students must maintain an unweighted 3.0 GPA and have received an A or B in each course they plan to tutor.   Applications are available in the counseling office. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
986F,Community Based Learning Program (F),Electives,11;12,Fall,Varied,1,,None,The Community Based Learning Program is an experiential learning activity for juniors and seniors. The goals of the program are: to provide students with first-hand experience in an identified work place; to develop in students a sense of responsibility and confidence; and to allow students to explore careers of interest at this time. Career interests could be in the professions; in the arts; in commerce; or in public service. Students are assigned a split schedule. Part of the day is spent in the classroom on academics and part of the day is spent in the community at an on-site learning station; the amount of time in each setting is determined by the needs of the individual student. Coordination and transportation is the responsibility of the student and family.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LMIF6yi5BH0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
986S,Community Based Learning Program (S),Electives,11;12,Spring,Varied,1,,None,The Community Based Learning Program is an experiential learning activity for juniors and seniors. The goals of the program are: to provide students with first-hand experience in an identified work place; to develop in students a sense of responsibility and confidence; and to allow students to explore careers of interest at this time. Career interests could be in the professions; in the arts; in commerce; or in public service. Students are assigned a split schedule. Part of the day is spent in the classroom on academics and part of the day is spent in the community at an on-site learning station; the amount of time in each setting is determined by the needs of the individual student. Coordination and transportation is the responsibility of the student and family.,http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LMIF6yi5BH0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989A,Parkway,Electives,,Year,40,8,,None,Students who have an interest in vocational-technical education may take advantage of the program offered at Parkway West Career and Technology Center. The school is supported by 12 school districts in southwestern Allegheny County and serves high school students and adults from each of these districts. Its building is to be considered as a part of Upper St. Clair High School and its courses offer a broadening of our school’s curriculum.  Each year a representative of Parkway West comes to our school to present the Parkway West programs to rising ninth; tenth; eleventh; and twelfth grade students. Students attend Parkway West for a half- day each morning or afternoon for instruction and return to the high school for a schedule of English; related requirements and electives. Each student who successfully completes the courses at Parkway West and the requirements for graduation at his home high school will receive a diploma from the home school and a certificate of achievement from Parkway West. Students receive four Upper St. Clair credits per semester upon successful completion of the work.  Tuition and transportation are provided by the Upper St. Clair School District. However; students who begin a two-year program in the senior year and wish to continue the program as a post graduate student must provide their own tuition and transportation for the second year of the program.  Parents and/or students interested in seeing the facilities at Parkway West are encouraged to call our high school counseling department. Arrangements can be made to see the school during day or evening hours.,https://youtu.be/Grpy_UOX-74,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989ACIV,Pky*Civics,Social Studies,,Year,,,,None,This course will provide students with a basic understanding of how the government of the United States works.  Students will explain the influences that British political traditions and our experiences in early colonial government played upon the development of our system of government.  Students will examine the three branches of the federal government and explain how each branch checks the power of the other.  Students will discuss the evolution of the Constitution of the United States; particularly the Bill of Rights and other key amendments as they apply to an ever-changing society.  Students will analyze the American political system and the electoral process with particular emphasis upon nominations; compaigns and elections for the Presidency.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989ACP,Pky*Chemical Properties in Practice,Science,,Year,,,,None,This course focuses on chemistry and its applications to today's issues.  Students will first become acquainted with the basic principles of chemistry including matter and its states; the atomic theory and thermodynamic theory; reactions and solutions; and equilibrium.  They will gain an understanding of the relationship between these content and nuclear and organic issues facing today's technology.  Finally; they will use this knowledge to explore many of the ways chemistry is used to balance the needs and wants of humanity with the stresses placed on the physical environment with an eye toward the application of green technology and providing the energy needed for a population becoming more technological each day.  The major focus is laced on: content; analysis; interpretation and problem solving of today's issues.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989ATEC,Pky*Principles of Technology,Science,,Year,,,,None,This course is an applied physics course which focuses on both content and application through the use of labs.  The materials covered include measurement; Newton's Three Laws of Motion and their application through 1 and 2 dimensions; force; momentum and inertia; work; energy and simple machines.  This section is explored through both linear and rotational examples and labs.  Thermodynamics; heat and states of matter are explored as forces which utilize pressure and have applications in real world careers.  Electricity and magnetism are explained as part of the physics of the atom.  Pendulums; sound and light are a part of the periodic motion and waves section.  Quantum mechanics and relativity are referred to when they apply to the sections being studied.  The major focus is placed on content; analysis and thehy utilization of that content in real world situations with an emphasis on the value of scientific application in problem solving.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989AUS1,Pky*US History I,Social Studies,,Year,,,,None,This course is the study of social; political; cultural and economic development of the United States from Pre-Colonial America through the antebellum period.  Students will develop an understanding of how our Nation's past comes to impact current events.  Additionally; students will appreciate the development of our democratic principles and recognize the responsibilities of citizenship in a free nation.  Students will use varied resources to examine course content.  In addition to the text; students will examine historial documents; eye witness accounts; excerpts of period literature and political cartoons.  Students will interpret charts; graphs and maps in the context of the course.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989AUS2,Pky*US History II,Social Studies,,Year,,,,None,This course continues the study of the social; political; cultural and economic development of the United States from the American Civil War to the present.  Students will develop an understanding of how our Nation's past comes to impact current events.  Additionally; students will appreciate the development of our democratic principles and recognize the responsiblities of citizenship in a free nation.  Students will use varied resources to examine the course content.  In addition to the text; students will examine historical documents; eye witness accounts; excerpts of period literature and political cartoons.  Students will interpret charts; graphs and maps in the context of the course.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
989AWC,Pky*World Cultures,Social Studies,,Year,,,,None,This course focuses on the diverse ways of life found around the world.  Through the study of various regions of the world the students will better understand the geography; history; and culture of other peoples.  Additionally; the course focuses on how historical events have shaped the world as well as make connections between events from the past and the present.  Students are challenged to think outside of own culture and better appreciate the many cultural traditions celebrated around the world.  Major areas of focus include:  Africa; China; India; Russia; Japan; and Europe.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
990,Resource Center,,,,Varied,None,,,The resource center; located next to the library; provides tutoring and academic assistance for students in the areas of English; Social Studies; Math; Science; and World Language during all mods of the day. Although students are encouraged to use the resource center when necessary during free mods; parents may choose to have their student scheduled into the resource center on a regular basis. Students formally scheduled into the resource center are expected to attend as if it were a class; however; no credit will be granted.,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qrQ91SK3FZI,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
SS991,Leadership Academy,,,Summer,30 hrs,1,,Phases are Completed in Order I-IV,The USCHS Leadership Academy is a one-week summer workshop offering students exposure to leadership concepts and practices. Students identify their leadership strengths and learn how these skills can be used to make them successful in all stages of life. Through experiential learning strategies; group projects; and hands-on activities; students experience the application of leadership skills; building confidence in their abilities and enhancing their capacity to serve in leadership roles. Students leave the USCHS Leadership Academy with a Personalized Leadership Plan to assist with their development of leadership skills in the future. The Leadership Academy is open to ALL USC HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS!,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
SS995,STEAM Academy,,,Summer,30 hrs,1,,None,The USCHS Leadership Academy is a one-week summer workshop offering students exposure to leadership concepts and practices. Students identify their leadership strengths and learn how these skills can be used to make them successful in all stages of life. Through experiential learning strategies; group projects; and hands-on activities; students experience the application of leadership skills; building confidence in their abilities and enhancing their capacity to serve in leadership roles. Students leave the USCHS Leadership Academy with a Personalized Leadership Plan to assist with their development of leadership skills in the future. The Leadership Academy is open to ALL USC HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS!,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,